Chapter one, verse seven. Or verse six. Um, (chair creaks) actually we're just, we've censored this in verse five. Faithful witness, He w- 'cause our Lord witnessed to His Father, and He will judge precisely and faithfully at the end of the world. He is the, our Lord is the firstborn of the dead. Jesus Christ is the firstborn of the dead, the first begotten of the dead. I.e. the first to rise to life eternal. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 20. (coughs) Colossians 1, verse 18. References to the first born from the dead. "The prince of the kings of the earth, who hath loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood. And hath made us a kingdom and priests to God and His Father, to Him be glory in empire forever and ever, amen." Uh, five and six are the doctrinal basis of all the apocalypse. It's the heart of the whole of the book. Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, risen from the dead, King of Kings, loved us, redeemed us, made us a kingdom, priests, uh, of heaven, to Him glory in empire forever and ever. That's what Apo- Apocalypse is all about. Verse six, "He hath made us a kingdom." A kingdom, because Christ has destroyed the empire of the devil in our souls, and replaced it with His own. This is the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of heaven is within you. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Uh, the kingdom of heaven is like unto the gospel. "He hath made us a kingdom," the kingdom of Christ, because He's destroyed the empire of the devil in our souls, He's replaced it with His own. Et cetera, do as his day, (?) and He's made us priests, to God and His Father. Uh, priests, what's the right expression of that? There's, uh, not sacramental priests by the sacrament of ordination. What's the correct... The, the ministerial priesthood and the somebody? What's the correct word? Ministerial. Ministerial and... Priesthood of the faithful. Yes, the priesthood of the faithful. Ministerial priesthood and the priesthood of the faithful, that's ministerial priesthood (inaudible 00:03:23). In any case, uh, He hath made us priests of the interior priesthood by baptism, not by ordination. Priests in the same sense in which Peter talks about in his first epistle. The reference is very likely here, um, no, it isn't. The back doesn't give it, actually. But it's in the First Epistle of Peter, "He hath made us..." Why is every C- Catholic a priest in heaven? In what sense is every Catholic a, is every Catholic a priest in heaven? Whether... What's the essence of a priest? A sacrifice. Yes, that's right. What sacrifice is every Catholic offering in heaven? A sacrifice of praise, you may say. A sacrifice of praise and glory. So every Catholic in heaven is offering a sacrifice of praise and glory to God, so p- priests in that broader sense, to be strictly distinguished from the ministerial priesthood. But the modernists, of course, fool around on that, fool around with that distinction. Priests, uh, priests of the interior, priests of by baptism, of souls, the priesthood of souls offering a sacrifice of prayer and good works. The interior priesthood of souls offering a sacrifice of prayer and good works on the inner altar of their hearts. John 4:23, "God is Spirit and will be adored in spirit." John 4:23. "The hour cometh and now is when the true adorer shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father also seeketh such to adore Him. God is spirit and if they adore Him, they must adore Him in spirit and in truth." So the priests, by the interior priesthood, souls offering a sacrifice of prayer and good works on the inner altar of their hearts. So the distinction here is between the interior priesthood and the exterior priesthood, the priesthood by baptism, the priesthood by ordination. The minister-, uh, the priesthood of the faithful, the ministerial priesthood. Let's just get that one out of the way. Priesthood. It's, it's a distinction which is perfectly, perfectly clear, but the modernists fool around with it. Uh, what did I say? Priesthood by baptism- (coughs) ... by ordination, by priestly ordination, uh, equals... That's the ministerial priesthood-We just said this is the priesthood of the faithful. It's not priesthood in the strict sense, but priesthood of faithful. It's only an analogous sentence. Equals, uh, interior priests and the exterior priests. Priesthood in the heart, priesthood in, in, uh, by hands, if you like. Priesthood by hands are anointed and offer the sacrifice. Priesthood of the heart, priesthood of the hands. Yes? I heard a, uh, I don't know if you recall where the, uh, something along the lines of, uh, laity are considered priests according to, to Aaron because of the, of their, the work that they do for him. There's nothing to that- Absolutely nothing. ... work that they do for him. Absolutely nothing. Again, it's purely comparison, designed to, again, blur the distinction. Because if you say that the faithful are priests according to the order of Aaron, you know, you're getting... The order of Aaron was th- they were quite different from the laity. How did the priest, how did a priest become a priest according to the order of Aaron? Daniel, do you remember? They were born into it. Yes, they were born. If you were born into the tribe, uh, the family of Aaron in the Tribe of Levi, in the family there only were every male child was a priest, in the family there on the tr- uh, the Tribe of Levi. And then every Levite outside the order of Aaron was a Levite. He was a deacon without being a priest. So it was by birth, in other words. Uh, Yes. One more. First Peter the Apostle, uh, does anybody know where that, uh, um, there's a priesthood in the first, in 1 Peter. 1 Peter 7... 2:5, thank you. "Be you also as living stones built up a special house, a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ." 1 Peter 2:5. That's the interior priesthood, spiritual sacrifices. The ordained priest offers, offers up physical sacrifices, the host and the wine, the bread and the wine, consecrated, the body and blood, but, but they're physical. The priesthood of the faithful is a spiritual priesthood, okay? Be careful. That's a, a classic, uh, boobytrap for Modernists, or used by Modernists. Uh, verse 7. Uh, "Behold, um, he cometh with the clouds and every eye shall see him and they also that pierced him and all the tribes of the earth shall bewail themselves because of him. Even so. Amen." "Behold he comes with clouds..." This is of course Our Lord. "With clouds..." Literally. Acts 1:9-11. Our Lord at his ascension speaking of his com- of the second coming. "He will s- you will behold the Son of Man on the clouds." Either literally, mystically, or spiritually, the clouds are the apostles. Clouds are the apostles. In Africa, it seems that the chief could very well understand the, there being statues in a Catholic church because the head man had to have, you know, counselors or adjutants or sidekicks around him. In fact, it was understandable that the head man should not have sidekicks, therefore the Protestants got it wrong. But the Catholics who have saints around the altar have got it right. Statues of saints around the altar, that's right. Clouds around the principal glory. So you know he will come in clouds, the apostles. Uh, "And he will see, uh, and every eye will see him, uh, and they, they too that have pierced him and all the tribes of the earth shall wail." Uh, all the tribes of the earth, the tribes are the slaves of earthly goods, who will be wailing. The bad guys will be sorry. The good guys will rejoice. So these are the bad guys. The tribes are the slaves of earthly goods. "Shall bewail themselves because of him. He will become x- with the clouds." Obviously this is ref- reference to the Second Coming. The bad guys will lament. "Even so. Amen." In Hebrew, etsem amen. Greek and Hebrew. Etsem Greek, amen Hebrew. The Apocalypse is for Gentile and Jew. Etsem amen, etsem Gentile, amen Jew. In other words, the, the Apocalypse is for everybody. "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord God, who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty." Uh, alpha and omega, the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. Alpha is the first letter of the Greek alphabet, omega is the last letter of the Greek alphabet. "The beginning and the end," saith the Lord God. Um, "Who is and who was and who are to come, the Al- the Almighty."Just as the alphabet contains all human science, so God is omniscient. So "I am the Alpha, the Omega" means "I know everything that you can write down with letters of the alphabet." Everything that the alphabet contains, and that's all knowledge, which is... because all knowledge will be written down with letters of the alphabet. "All knowledge, I possess. I am om-... I, I am the Alpha and the Omega. I am omniscient." We come on to the introductory vision, verses 9 to, uh, 19, the end of chapter 1. The introductory vision. "I, John, your brother, and your share and part in tribulation, and in the Kingdom, and suffering in Christ Jesus, was in the island which is called Patmos on account of the Word of God." He, he got thrown out there because he was preaching. He was doing his job as Bishop of Ephesus. They exiled him. "On account of the Word of God, and the testimony of... and for the testimony of Jesus." "I testified to Jesus being God." "I was," verse 10, "in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. I was in ecstasy on Sunday." "In the Spirit." That's an expression we've already seen. "In ecstasy on Sunday." "And I heard behind me a great voice like of a trumpet saying, 'What you see, write down in a book and send it to the seven churches," which are in Asia, Ephes-... uh, uh, one Ephesus, two Smyrna, three Pergamum, four Thyatira, five Sardis, six Philadelphia, seven Laodicea." So, a trumpet to get his attention. "Saying, 'What you see, write it down in a book and send it.'" So, Saint John is being told to put this, what he will see in writing, and then send it to the churches. That's why... or this verse is why they say the... you may remember the immediate addressee of the Apocalypse is the seven churches of Asia Minor. The mediate addressee is the whole Church. Bernie? Can you reference in the last line of ￼7.7 Might be. Might be. Uh, but, but more likely, the Gospel is simply part of his whole ministry. He wa-... probably got through... The Romans probably don't bother with what he wrote, but they... or the, the authorities don't bother with what he wrote, but they do bother with his, uh, setting up this Christian church in Ephesus. Okay? So probably his whole ministry. "I was in ecstasy on Sunday. I heard behind me a great voice as of a, as of a trumpet, saying, 'What you see, write down in a book. Send it to the seven churches.' And I turned around in order to see the voice." That's a bit strange, but you know what he means. Uh, "I turned around to see the voice that spoke with me, and on turning, I saw seven golden candlesticks." Uh, gold is always charity. Gold always stands for charity. Heresy is tinsel in comparison. Rinky-dink tin. Okay? Whereas charity's gold. Candlesticks are the church. A candlestick is a church because it carries Christ, the light of the world. As a candlestick carries a candle, s-... or as a candle is carried by a candlestick, so the light of the world is carried by the churches. So, it's a very interesting thought comparison. Christ is to churches as light to candlesticks. Interesting comparison because, of course, the churches are all, uh, numerous. Christ is one. Candlesticks are numerous. Candles are numerous, but light is, of course, in a sense, one. You've got the different candle in each candlestick, but the light is always, light is always light. Someone once asked Dr. Samuel Johnson to define light. He said, "Nobody can define it. Everybody knows what it is." (laughing) Who was... What... Who was Dr. Samuel Johnson? Do any of you know? Dr. Samuel Johnson. Did he write a dictionary? Yes, he wrote a dictionary. Yes. Yes. He was an Englishman who didn't like Scotland very much. He said, "The best, the best sight any Scotsman can ever, can ever see is the front of England as he's crossing southwards." (laughing) Uh, so it's ironic that he, he wrote a dictionary with these various things. Um, uh, oh, what are oats? "Oats are a, uh, are a feed that, um, the English give to their horses and that Scotsmen eat by themselves." (laughing) It's a number of things like this. He was a Tory. He was an outstanding Tory.He should have been a Catholic, but I don't think he ever did convert. Dr. Samuel Johnson. He was a character. Uh, a famous character in London. I'm going to guess his dates. Uh, I would guess he died about 1780, but that's a guess. And I would guess he was born about 1710. So he was right through the middle of the 18th century. He said, "He who hates London, hates life." He's another thing that Dr. Johnson said. (laughs) "He who hates London, hates life." Whenever I say that I love New York, my colleagues tell me I need a retreat. (laughs) But actually I do in a funny way love New York. (laughs) It's a strange thing but it's, you know, it's crazy but... um, he, he was a Tory. He hated Whigs with a passion. Whigs were of course the descendants of the Puritans and the forefathers of the Liberals. You... the, the line, the line went from Puritans to Rationalists. The old Puritans turned into Rationalists, who in politics were Whigs, who turned into Liberals. That's the infamous line. And, uh, the, the opponents of the Whigs, the political opponents of the Whigs were the Tories, named after conservatory, conservatories, so they got short for Tory Tories. Uh, Dr. John, Sam- Samuel Johnson loathed Whigs, um, basically quite right, too. Uh, he was a character. Uh, he didn't... he wrote, uh, there's a famous life of Johnson written by one of his disciples called Boswell, Boswell's Life of Johnson, which contains a lot of his sayings. And, um, he loved talking. He would always... he would talk through the night with the young dogs that came to see him. And, um, I think towards the end of his days, he knew an Italian abbot of a Benedictine abbey, and I think he even visited him, I'm not sure, but he... I don't know if he converted, but he knew what the modern world was up to. He had a good idea what the way the modern world was going, even though he wasn't a, wasn't... he was never a Catholic. How did we get on to Johnson? Um, big heavy man. His, his definition of light. Oh, yes, that's it, yes. Light is, uh, that's it, light. Uh, everyone knows what it is, but nobody can define it. Somebody once to- uh, ga- told him, you know, um, Bach, the, the philosopher, Berkeley, says that we, we get our senses. Dr. Johnson went up to a big stone he gave it a big kick and he said, "Thus do I refute Berkeley." (laughs) Common sense, common sense. Yep, on predestination he said, uh, his predestination he said, "All argument is for it, all experience is against it." All right, so we just have to think about that one. Predestination in the, in obviously the Calvinist sense. "All argument is for it, all, all experience is against it." It's tr- there's some truth in that. It's not, it's not a theologian speaking, but it's a, it's a man with some good sense. All right, uh, so the candlesticks all carry one light in a c- they carry a lot of little lights and yet all those lights make one light. The same, the churches each carry their own little light and yet all of those lights are the one light which is Christ. Therefore the, the candlesticks are the church's, carrying Christ the light of the world. Gold is charity and seven, seven candlesticks... One moment. Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo. Yes. Seven, hmm. Well, of course seven is the number... He's picked seven churches, he's named seven churches, but it's also the number of the sacraments, the number of the sacraments, the number of the Gifts, capital G, the Gifts of the Holy Ghost, the number of the virtues, the number of the works of corporal and spiritual mercy. All of those are sevens. Seven, seven, seven, seven, seven. And he's picked seven churches which stands for universal. Undoubtedly there were other cities with churches in Asia Minor, undoubtedly they also needed letters, but those seven churches will stand for them all. So sevens is universal. Verse 13, uh, "And in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, one like to the Son of Man." In the midst of the candlesticks, Christ is in his churches, Christ is within his churches. Amidst the candlesticks, Christ. Christ is within his churches. One like to the Son of Man. Like. Lit- there's a literal meaning and a mystical meaning. Literally, some angel is standing in for Christ. John is not actually seeing Jesus Christ, he's seeing an angel who's standing in or representing Christ. So one like to the Son of Man. So he's seeing act- what he's actually seeing is an angel. One like to the Son of Man. Uh, mystical meaning, the risen Christ is different. Now John is seeing the risen Christ who's like the Christ on Earth, but not exactly. Obviously the wounds are shining brilliantly and so on. Uh-Clothed with a garment down to the feet. Um, the tunic of the Jewish high priest stands for his priesthood. Clothed with a garment down to the feet stands for His priesthood, the priesthood of Christ. From head to foot (coughs) stands for charity. It's a garment like that of the high priest, the, the, a Jewish high priest and it symbolizes the charity of Christ from head to foot. Christ was charited from head to foot. This garment which ... So it, it signifies both His charity and His priesthood. This garment signifies His priesthood and His charity, His charity and His priesthood. Um, "And girt about the paps with a golden girdle." That's the chest. Um (clears throat), again, mortification of competicence. The New Testament mortification even of de- of, of desires, the heart. Uh, it's mortifying the heart, the movements of the heart. The Old Testament you are not allowed to act. In the New Testament you're not allowed to desire. So here is, uh, girt about the... Not... Us- usually we sp- speak frequently of girt around about the loins and that obviously stands for chastity. Girt around the chest as well stands for, um, the chastity of desires as well as action. Uh, "And His head and His hairs were white as white wool and as snow and His eyes were as a flame of fire." Um, the head is wisdom. White stands for divinity, for eternity. (clears throat) Uh, they were as white as washed wool, white as white wool. Uh, the wool is soft, wh- clean and warm thoughts. The white wool is soft, clean and warm thoughts. The s- and like snow. The snow stands for icy resistance to the devil. "His head and His hairs were white as white wool and as snow and His eyes were as a fla- flame of fire." The snow is His icy resistance to the devil. Oculos temptum fluores his eyes were like a flame of fire. The divine eyes purify and at the same time enflame with love. The divine eyes both purify and enflame with love (dog barks in the distance), (clears throat). "I am come to cast fire on the earth, and what will I but that it be kindled?" Luke 12:49. "I am come to cast fire on the earth and what do I wish but that it be kindled?" The fire of charity, of course, always. The divine eyes purify and enflame with love. They burn up, um, impurities. That's the purifying. Verse 15, "And His feet like unto fine brass as in a burning furnace and His voice as the sound of many waters." The b- fine brass i- stands for strength and stability. "His feet like unto fine brass." Strength and stability. The burning furnace is the Passion with a capital P. He was strong and stable through all His terrible Passion. His voice... This is always, of course, the angel resembling the Son of Man, picturing the Son of Man. "His voice wa- as the sound of many waters." Many waters are the worldwide flood of truth, the worldwide flood of truth that came with our Lord. When our Lord took flesh, the truth began to flood through the world, and it's only now really being shut down again in our own time.(clears throat) Various heresies have, uh, dammed up the floodwaters of truth, but those floodwaters kept breaking out again. The truth has kept flooding over the world with our Lord, but now in our own time, the end of the 20th century, it looks as though the enemy, Christ is allowing his enemies Yes. ... almost to shut the truth down. So the worldwide, the wor- th- th- still perhaps to think today of how much truth our Lord brought into the world because it's been dammed up and silenced, but if you cast your mind back over 20 centuries, it's clear that the truth that our Lord brought has, did flood through the world. Uh, many waters, the worldwide flood of truth. Verse 16, "And he had in his right hand seven stars, and from his mouth came out a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was as the sun shineth in his power." He had in his right hand seven stars. In his right hand, in the hand of Christ to lead to Christ. It's Christ who's holding these stars and the stars are to lead people to Christ. He had in his hand seven stars, in his right hand, seven stars. (background noise) The stars are bishops. The stars are bishops. In the beginning of chapter two you'll see, "Unto the angel of the Church of Ephesus write..." and that is actually the bishop of the Church of Ephesus. The angel is the bishop, the star is the bishop. Um, so to the, uh, in his right hand, the stars are the bishops. In other words, spiritual stars to shine in the darkness of the world, that's the idea. Spiritual stars to shine in the darkness of the world. Like stars shine in darkness, so the bishops must shine in the world. "She dwelt unknown and few could know when Lucy..." uh, no, no, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. Duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht, duht. "She dwelt amidst untrodden ways beside the springs of Dove." That's a little river just named like the bird. "And made when there were none to praise and very few to love. She dwelt un-" uh, "like, uh, violet 'neath a mossy stone, half-hidden from the eye, or like a star when only one is shining in the sky. She dwelt unknown and few could know when Lucy ceased to be, but now she's in her grave, and oh, the difference to me." It's one of the famous Lucy poems by William Wordsworth. Can anybody give me the dates of William Wordsworth? Famous English poet of the Lake District, which is in the northeast, northwestern part of England, underneath Scotland, uh, above Scotland morally, but, you know. (laughs) Um, Wordsworth dates, he was born in 1770 and he died in 1850. He was, uh, "Bliss was it on that dawn to be alive, but to be young was very heaven." What was he talking about? Any of you know? Famous lines again. The French Revolution. Yes, that's right, the French Revolution. As a young man, he was only 19 or 20 when the revolution broke out (door slams) in 1789, and he went over to France and he actually left a descendant in France. I mean, he, uh, engendered and left behind a descendant in France, isn't it? And, and he was still, when he was young, he was all inflamed with enthusiasm for the revolution, but, but when he grew older, he grew, grew somewhat wiser, and he finished a very respectable and somewhat dull old man. Uh, that's what they say, anyway. Um, but in his youth, he wrote some very, very fine poems, which are famous in the English language. Very clear, very simple, very, like a, like mountain streams, very clear and simple and clean. So like, th- th- uh, just like a star when only one... Or like a star when only one is shining in the sky. "Like violet 'neath a mossy stone, half-hidden from the eye, or like a star when only one is shining in the sky." That's, uh, so the star shining in the darkness, that's me- meant to be, um, a bishop. The stars then represent, uh, they're called the bishops compared with stars because they shine out in the darkness, with the brilliance of the Gospel. They shine out not with our, not with their own brilliance, but with the brilliance of the Gospel. The sword, "He had in his right hand seven stars, and from his mouth came out a sharp two-edged sword. From his mouth came out a sharp two-edged sword." From his mouth came out, it gives it away, it's no problem at all. The sword is the word of God. With the power of God. A sharp, sharp means it's powerful. Two-edged, the sword is two-edged. Anybody? Two-edged, not because it divides soul and spirit. That's what important, but that, that doesn't, doesn't explain why it's two-edged. One edge would be enough to divide soul and spirit. Two-edged. Because it has...... a, a quite different power upon the good and upon the bad. The sword makes the good feel good about themselves, but it makes the bad feel bad about themselves. So this- this one and the same sword has very different effects upon the good and upon the bad. That's why it's two-edged. "He had in his right hand seven stars, and from his mouth came out a sharp two-edged sword." That's the word of God, which strikes the good and the bad very differently. "And his face was as the sun shineth in his power." The face of the one like the son of man shines out in strength, like the Transfiguration. Matthew 7- chapter 17. In his strength, the, uh, at noon. The sun in its strength, the sun at noon. The sun in all its brilliance, the sun in full brilliance. "His face was as the sun shineth in his power." Like the sun shining at midday, in all its, in all its strength, in full strength. Compare the Transfiguration. Matthew 17:1-6. M- Matthew compares the appearance of our Lord to snow, and nothing can give the brilliance except a comparison with snow and a comparison with the li- with the sun. And then souls that actually see the mother of God or our Lord, they say that the sun and the snow are very poor comparisons. It's so brilliant. They're very poor comparisons. So, uh, s- verse 17. "And when I had seen him, I fell at his feet as dead." As though I were dead. "I fell." There are numerous cases in the old testament like that. Daniel 10:8, that's Daniel himself. Genesis 17:3, who fell there? Anybody? Genesis 17:3. I don't think so. I think you'll find it's, I think you'll find it's Abraham. 18:27 most likely Abraham as well, I think, but may be Isaac. I'm not sure. Exodus 33:20, that's a good chance of being Moses. Genesis 17:3, 18:20, 27, and Exodus 33:20. Those are just a few examples. Most people are filled with fear when an- an angel or some such vision appears to them. "As if dead." In other words, dead to the world. "As if dead." I fell down dead to the world. Dead to the world on seeing God. Read 2 Corinthian 6:9. "I fell down as if dead." In other words, dead to the world on seeing God. "I fell at his feet as dead and he laid his right hand upon me saying, 'Fear not, I am the first and the last.'" I am the first and the last. I am the highest of creatures, treated as the lowest. That's another un- interpretation of the first and the last. I am the highest of creatures, treated as the lowest. That's the God man in his man- in his humanity. In his divinity, the first and the last is obviously each end of eternity, in a manner of speaking. Summers? This is still Our Lord. ... Our Lord. I am the first and the last. Standing in for our Lord. Okay. Uh, "I am the first and the last." 18, "And alive, and was dead, and behold I'm living forever and ever and I have the keys of death and of hell." Obviously, our Lord in his humanity. For whom the angel is standing in, okay? So that the, Saint John understands clearly that it's as if our Lord himself was speaking. Uh, "Write therefore the things which thou hast seen and which are and which must be done hereafter." Um, "Write therefore the things which thou hast seen which are and which must be done hereafter." Write the past life of Jesus, the present tribulations of the church, the future coming of the Antichrist, et cetera. "Write down the past tribulations of Jesus, the past life of Jesus, the present tribulations of the church, the future coming of the Antichrist, et cetera." Put down in this book the past, the present, and the future. Verse 20. Here you have, "The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand are the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches." That's the bishops.... Angelos measure- messenger, the outstanding messengers of each of the churches, which is the bishops. The stars, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches. And the seven candlesticks are the seven churches. There you are. It's... Notice that verse, clearly giving you the meaning of some of the details already presented, which suggests that all of the other details also have a meaning. Verse 20 doesn't give you the meaning of every detail. It gives the meaning of a couple, but the couple that it gives you suggests that all the other details can also have their mean- meaning. In other words, you know, to say that gold means charity, to say that, uh, uh, the waters are the flood of truth, it's not just imagination. It's not... Verse 20 tells us that these details mean something, have a meaning behind them, have a spiritual meaning. Visions are full of de- physical detail. The physical detail always means something. Any questions on chapter one? Verde? Why is it that John sees him as an angel? 'Cause it seems that, at the same time, we were already in Christ, uh, it seems that the Christians are, you know, in division. Um, ta mama, mama, mama, mum, um, um, um, um, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. It says, says one like to the Son of Man, verse 13. Doesn't say it was the Son of Man. It says one like the Son of Man. That's, that's where I think it's, he says it's the, it's an angel who's, who's standing in for our Lord. Um, hold on. Let me see. Yes, that's it. Literally, the literal meaning is, the literal meaning of this like to is that throughout this introductory vision, what John is really seeing is an angel in the place of Christ. In the mystical sense, the risen Lord is no longer, um, weighed down by the flesh as he was during his 33-year human life. Okay? Any other questions of different... Darby? Uh, since that expression, uh, "Like the Son of Man" is the same at the end of these, uh, course, of his, it does sort of appear at the end of the book. But it would seem prior to the apocalypse, would it be reading Daniel? Uh, what, what, what's the reference in Daniel? Seven, uh- Daniel 7? That's Daniel 7. Daniel 7:13. And I saw one like to... "I beheld there in the vision of the night and lo, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds of Him, and he came even to the ancient days and they presented before him." Yes. I, I, I'd need to know Daniel very well to be sure of saying what, if that is as the same. One like to... It might be. It obviously, he gave him power and glory in the kingdom, all the people's tribes and social sign, is obviously the Messiah. He came even to the ancient days and they presented him before him. They presented the Messiah before the... It, I don't know whether that also means there's an angel there, but, but, um, that's, that's the meaning this commentator gives, to Domonion gives to like to the Son of Man in verse 13. Jenkins? Why wasn't he adored in his death, in the ocean? Are you talking about- Yes. ... this time of death? I think... Both. Yes. Yes. Maybe it was... He's not, he's not adoring him here. He simply falls down as if dead. So since he's not adoring, but, well, he maybe is falling down in a swoon or a faint or horror rather than in adoration. I don't know.