(instrumental music) 18th century. (instrumental music) 19th century. (instrumental music) Mozart... (instrumental music) Was born in 1756. (chalking sound) Died in 1791. Uh, two years after the French Revolution broke out, but two years before the Terror. Schubert... (chalk tapping) was born in 1798. Died in 1828. Beethoven... (chalk tapping) was born in 1770. (chalk tapping) And died in 1827. (chalk tapping) Uh, you could say that... (chalk dropping on table) Mozart is a classic rom- (chalk tapping) Uh, Schubert is a romantic. And Beethoven is a classic... romantic. (clears throat) Um, he... Shift from the 18th century to the 19th century is, of course, the shift of the French Revolution. Above all, in politics, it's above all the shift of the French Revolution. The 17- the 18th century was a century of order. If you read George Washington's prose, you can see that there's- there's a gentlemanly order about the way he writes. There's, um... (chalking sound) There circulates a book of gentleman's etiquette, principles that George Washington copied down from somewhere, I think. What is called George Washington's Book of Etiquette. Have you seen that little book? The Rules for Gentleman's Behavior? And is it... It said that it was used... the book was used by George Washington, right? Or kept by him. Yes. I don't think he wrote it, but, um... Uh, order. Whereas the 19th century is the century of romanticism, of passion, of feeling, of wildness. There's m- rather less order in the 19th century, but much more... a much broader, um, broader range of feeling, if you like. Less mind, more feel. All right, so Beethoven, uh, the- well, the one reason why Beethoven h- has the stature that he has is precisely because, like Shakespeare, he's at a turning point between two worlds, the reason why he's so deep, and why there's so much in him. You see, he's- he's- he's the point between two worlds. So that there's the order of the 18th century, especially in his first... in the music of his first period, and then around... just around here, soon after you get the Eroica symphony, which you've listened to, the third symphony, and he moves into his second period, which is the first years of the- of the 19th century. That's the- most of the music for which he is most famous, and then at the end, his thir- after the Battle of Waterloo, uh, had, uh, so to speak, in politics, quieted down the revolutionary upheaval. Uh, there's no longer, so to speak, a heroic period. You get Beethoven's Third, the third period of Beethoven's music, which is from eight- 1815 to the end, which is, um, a kind of turning inward. Um, no longer the explosive heroism, but a kind of, uh, inward heroism, one might say. So we're going, changing from the classic time to the romantic time, and there are elements both of classic order in Beethoven, and of romantic feeling. It is the combination of the two which gives his music its, uh, special power and depth. Mozart is- belongs definitely to the 18th century. And therefore there's order, but- but the feeling, I've said he's a classic rom- because the feeling is beginning to rise in Mozart. The feeling is underneath the surface. You don't have to scratch too much underneath that surface to hear the tears, uh, and the heartbreak. There is a heartbreak in Mozart, but it's always very graciously done. The surface remains absolutely gentlemanly and absolutely orderly. The order is never broken up like it is with Beethoven. Uh, Schubert is apparently quite like Mozart. There is or- definitely also order in Schubert. Schubert is not a- is definitely not a barnstormer, a shaker of the heavens like Beethoven, but this- his music is nevertheless full of a very strong feeling. You- you've listened, some of you, to his C major String Quartet, especially that slow movement, with its wild, almost wild interludes in the slow movement of the C major String Quintet. Uh, but the emphasis is that Schubert is absolutely full of tears, and, uh, he once said, you know, "What is music except a terrible melancholy?" He said, in some quotation mark after Schubert. But, uh, there's... The emphasis is definitely moving in Schubert that- that- that some- there's quite a lot of order still there in Schubert, but the emphasis is moving towards feeling. He is, therefore, one of the first romantics. And then there follow the full-flooded romantics, like Wa- Schumann and Wagner come into the middle of the 19th century, and then at the end, uh, towards the end, or the middle and the end, a romantic but who very much leans backwards to classical order, and that's Brahms. So-The Mozart Requiem was written in 1791, the very end of his life. He is on his deathbed. (book slams) He died at a young age. Uh, he's only 36 when he died, as you can see. Uh, possibly because he had worked so very hard. He, uh, he worked very hard and was not sure of his patronage. In 17- (coughs) He had begun writing music as a, uh, church musician. He was, uh, under the patronage of the Archbishop of Salzburg. Salzburg was his hometown at the western end of what we today know as Austria. Actually, not right at the western, no, about mid or halfway towards the west of Austria. And, um, but in 17-... About 1782, you see this in, uh, the film Amadeus, which is, which is, mm, there's some truth in it. It's, it's worth seeing. There's an evocation of Mozart that's worth seeing because it gets the, the spirit. It's get-... I think it gets quite a lot of the spirit of Mozart. It, it makes a monkey of him, but it does... It, uh, it definitely proves that Mozart was not a tin god. The liberals make of all of these musicians tin gods. That's say God doesn't exist, but, but the next best thing to God is the, the inspiration, the, the human inspiration, the humanism of these humanists. So that's... So th- these are made into gods, like the artists, like the, uh, politicians who make Napoleon into god. The liberals are constantly making human beings into gods, the most gifted of human beings, the most, quote/unquote, "inspired". Since they haven't got the Holy Spirit any longer, then they have to find ins- inspirited or inspired men, and they go in all directions to find those. So the advantage of that film about Mozart is that it shows he was definitely not a tin god. In the film, he's hardly even potty-trained. (laughs) As one critic says, "It's about true." (laughs) He's so childish. But there's some truth in that. There is a very childlike element in Mozart. There's a great simplicity, and he was born and bred in the Catholic faith. His father and his mother were very devout Catholics under the empire of when, when the, uh, Empress Maria Theresa was the empress of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which was then in its h- in its heyday, at its height. And, um, his father and his mother... His mother was Swabian. She wasn't Aus-... She was... Came from Swabia, which is pure Germany. His father was, was what we would call today Austrian, I think. But in 1782, uh, Mozart quit Salzburg, um, slamming the door behind him, so to speak. He didn't want to anymore have to dance to the beck and call of the archbishop, and he went off to Vienna. I think it was 1782. Early 1780s in any case. He went off to Vienna, which was the capital of the empire, and he, uh, freelanced. He went freelance, and it wasn't so easy as he might have hoped to freelance. He, he, he... At first he had a great success. He was the fashion and, and his f-... And he wrote some beautiful and wonderful music. Those are the Kirchgewalz 400s. Um, and then, uh, but then he sort of went out of fashion and kind of fell on hard times the later 1780s, and, uh, life wasn't easy for him. He had a wife and he had six children. I think only two of them survived, but she kept on producing children and he had to look after them. Um, he went... He got into Freemasonry possibly, one, because Freemasonry was c- highly fashionable and everybody who was anybody became a Freemason, and two, possibly because it did give him some patrons, and there are cer-... At the end of his life, pathetic letters, begging letters as he begs his Masonic friends to give him some money to keep his family going. Uh, and the, but the masterpieces slow down at the end of his life. Um, when he wrote the man-... Uh, when he wrote, uh, in the Kirchgewalz 600, so that's gonna be about 1790, 1791, he was, uh, commissioned to write dance music or dances. That's not dance music as we know it today. The dances were still a lot more decorous and a lot more respectable as they would- than they would be later. The waltz only came in about halfway through the 19th century, and it came in th- to the great scandal of, uh, the moralists who found waltzing very immoral kind of dancing. Never had a woman and man and woman been so close together. The minuet is always an arm-... Relatively an arm's length, so to speak. Dancing had always been much more decorous. It's only later... So dance music here was not what we think of, uh, later. But when, when Mozart was writing some of this dance music, he, he was paid a certain amount for it, um, and he wrote on... I, I think he wrote on one of these manuscripts, uh, "Too much for what I'm doing, too little for what I could do." Meaning they were paying him too much to write dance music. They ought to be paying him much more for what he really could do and could do much better. He was brilliantly gifted, and he above all, uh, wanted to write opera. That, that is his great gift. Uh, he has a wonderful, um... Mozart has a wonderful grasp of human nature, how human nature ticks, and, uh, he has a wonderful ability of putting it into music, so that if any of you know Figaro or Don Giovanni, those are two of... Or The Magic Flute, you can see that the, um, the music expresses what's going on inside people, so inside the people concerned. He also has a great affection for people and a breadth of affection for people. Somewhat he's been compared in this respect to Shakespeare. He's, um, he's got, uh, a kind of kindness towards all k- all kinds of people, including even his villains, so there's a great understanding. The French proverb says, "Tout comprendre c'est tout pardonner." To understand everything means forgiving everything. Uh, you don't want to take that too far, but there's some truth in it, and Mozart was one of those who-... uh, he loved partying. He- he loved, um, um, a good time, having a good time with his friends. He is marvelous at writing music of seduction, uh, that's to say when either a man is after some woman or a woman is after some man. It's not exactly the most, uh, elevated or, uh, moral of kind of music that you could write, but it is extremely true to life, for that kind of life. And, um, you see that first in the opera, the Abduction from the Seraglio, which is about, I don't know, probably 1782, 1784 probably, and there was a librettist, a Jewish librettist who had the brains to realize that, who actually died in Brooklyn. Uh, after having written operas with Mozart, he then immigrated to the United States and died in Brooklyn. I think his grave is in Brooklyn. Lorenzo Da Ponte. It's an Italian name (clears throat) or a Spanish name. No, Lorenzo is Italian. Da, Da Ponte is, yeah, is Italian, rather Italian. Um, he, uh, he had, I think, I don't know, but I guess he had the brains to realize just (clears throat) where Mozart's gift lay, and so, um, he composed three librettos for Mozart, all of which include scenes like that, of which, you know, very, very beautifully said. However, Mozart was born and bred a Catholic, and at the very end of his days, towards the end when he was already sick to death, and from what they know today of the symptoms, they think it was a kidney disease. His kids- his kidneys were probably worn out. Uh, today, they might have saved him in one way or another, they'd have warn... you know, the doctors would have got to him at an earlier stage. But as it was, I think, it looks as though he sort of burned himself out. And, um, towards, a few months before he died, there came to him a, um, a mysterious stranger who knocked on his door and said, "I want you to write a, a requiem." "Well, who's it for?" "Uh, y- I'm not allowed to say. You, I, you can't know who it is." "Oh, right. Well, what's the, what, what's the color of your money?" "Oh, it's colored gold." "Oh, okay." (laughs) So Mozart accepted the commission and he began writing the Requiem, uh, and he was writing it as he was, as he lay dying, he was still writing. Uh, this makes... and the music is very haunting, like some of the other masterpieces of Mozart at the end, the very end of his life, like for instance, the Clarinet Concerto. There's a special haunting quality, as though he knew he was dying, that, that you get it particularly in the Clarinet Concerto, other, but other pieces as well towards the end. And, uh, the Mo- the Requiem has also got this haunting quality. Mozart obviously knew that he was dying, and, uh, he, he died, I'm pretty damn sure, with the sacraments. I'm pretty sure of that. He saw a priest before he died. Um, he, uh, his deathbed, uh, and particularly the circumstance in which he wrote this Requiem, um, make a tremendous romantic subject, a t- tremendous romantic myth. So, you know, the un- the misunderstood artist, the neglected artist, the despised artist, wonderful art, great art. It's, it's a whole liberal piece of baloney, basically. You know, uh, the songbird dying in neglect while he's pouring out his last masterpiece. (laughs) (audience laughing) This kind of stuff. Yuck. But, uh, it's a, it's a very popular kind of picture of Mozart. The truth is that, um, he did die before finishing the, the Requiem, but he had a pupil, Süssmayr, Franz Süssmayr, who he must have been able to instruct quite well in how, the rest of how he wanted it to be finished, because the rest of the Requiem was finished in a way that is really, does... you know, you can't tell that it's that much worse than any that, that Mozart wrote at all. Um, it's when he wrote Confutatis Maledictis, it's the last part of the Dies Irae that, that Mozart wrote, and then he, then he dropped his pen and died. (whines) Uh, he had it, um, finished and he wanted it finished because, uh, that way there would, uh, there, there would be the commission, the, he was, he could still get the money for his family, so. And I think his money, his wi- his widow and his children did get the, the, the, the mysterious, uh, patron who commissioned the work, uh, did pay up. Um, only two of the children survived. I think the widow married again. I'm not sure. She survived quite a while, Constanze. She, she survived quite a while. Uh, in setting the Dies Irae, which is, uh, you know, all of you know, 'Dies irae, dies illa. Salvete sacrum in favilla. Teste David cum Sibylla.' Uh, in setting that piece, which is, uh, has all kind, you know that from the Requiem Mass, it's the sequence from the Requiem Mass, uh, just before the Gospel. Uh, in setting that piece, Mozart used all his operatic gifts. I've never actually myself sat down and listened to how the music corresponds to each part, but I can remember quite clearly th- how this to corresponds. 'Cum vix justus sit securus', which is out of 1 Peter. When, when even the just man is hardly, hardly safe. Um, nobody here has the text, have they, of Dies Irae, Dies Illa? The, the, the mo- the m- the music will. The music may have it. The disc, have you got the cover of the disc? Oh, I do have it. Yeah. Oh, that's, that's, that'll do it. Yes. There we are. Um, Officium. Hang on. Where's the? Give me the catalogues here somewhere. Index. (plays music)Who knows where ... (foreign language) in the Mass of the Dead? Um, start the, start with (foreign language). The... obviously, it's... the music is going to be dramatic for (foreign language). We'll listen through each part, and I'll remind you of the words until we get to (foreign language). And listen how the music fits the words. This is a genius at the very top of his powers, even if it was on his deathbed. Start with (foreign language). It won't take too long. Oh, you got it? Thanks very much. There it is. (foreign language) "The day of wrath that day will, uh, dissolve the world in favilla spargens," in fire. Uh, David testifying together with the Sybil. That's David in the Psalms told of the end of the world, the Sybil in pagan prophecy told of the end of the world. Both of them tell of the final judgment. (Latin). How much trembling there will be. (Latin). When the judge is going to come. (Latin). Uh, shaking everything strictly to pieces. That's a discerning very strictly everything that's, that's happened. (Latin). Uh, the trumpets scattering a marvelous sound. (Latin). And through, uh, the, uh, graves of the various regions will bring summons all before the throne. Death will, will s- will stand astonished and nature when the creature will rise again about to respond to the judge. The written book of life will be brought forward in which everything is contained from which the world is to be judged. Therefore, when the judge will sit down, everything hidden will appear, and nothing will remain unavenged. What am I, wretch, then going to say? What patron or Jewish lawyer am I then going to call on- (laughs) ... when even the just man is hardly in safety? (foreign language). King of a tremendous majesty, who savest gr- for nothing those who are due to be saved, save me, O font of piety. Remember, pious Jesus, that I am the cause of your life. Do not, um, damn me on that day. Th- th- seeking for me, you sat down weary. Uh, thou redeemest, thou re- uh, uh, thou redeemedst me suffering on the cross. Let so much labor not be in vain. Just judge of vengeance, uh, m- make gift of forgiveness before the day of r- reckoning. I groan like a... someone guilty. With guilt, my countenance is red. Uh, part... spare, O God, to he who is begging you. Thou who absolved, uh, Mary... that's obviously not the Mother of God. That's Mary Magdalene. Uh, how many of you bow your heads at (Latin)? Uh, no one would admit it. (laughs) But it's the wrong Mary. That's obviously, uh... don't bow your heads to that Mary because that's, that's not the Virgin Mary. Thou who absolved Mary Magdalene and listened and heard the good robber, you have also given to me hope. Let my prayers, uh... My prayers are not worthy, but you, O good one, be kind, lest I be burned with perpetual fire. Place me amongst... give me a place amongst the sheep and from... and separate me from the goats, setting me on your right hand. And then this is where Mozart stopped composing. Uh, (foreign language). This was the last piece he said. Uh, with the, the accursed having been confounded, uh, and cast into bitter flames, call me with the blessed. (Foreign language), Mozart. Hmm. Verdi is much more dramatic even than Mozart, but that's because here is where... Verdi's writing here, whereas Mozart's writing there. (instrumental music plays) (singing in Latin). Go on. Something wrong? (Latin). What's wrong? I don't know. It stopped. (techno noise) I hope it doesn't work at this point. Is it working? It's running out of battery. Running out of... it's running on battery, is it? Oh. I'll get the adapter. (techno noise) Okay. Okay. All right. All right. Uh, well, turn in the meantime to, uh, 2 Peter. We were just looking, s- looking at the introduction to 2 Peter, um, which is not going to keep us long. Uh, Canonistic trend, authenticity. The Catholics are unanimous, clearly so from the thir- at least from the third century onwards. The internal evidence is that, uh, the... Peter names himself in chapter one, verse one.He (clears throat), excuse me. He says that his own end is at hand, like the Lord told him and that cause re- reminds us of John 21:18-19 when our Lord told Peter that now he was free to go where he liked, but the end of his life, time will come when he'll be taken where he doesn't want to go, a reference to his martyrdom. Peter says that he... There's, the author says that he is the witness of the Transfiguration, which 1, chapter 1 verses 16 to 18, which means he could only be one of three, and he refers to his brother Paul in chapter 3 verse 15. Uh, (clears throat) if we know that the book is canonical, then there can be no untruths in it. If there's no untruths in it, then, uh, then it must be Peter speaking. Then it is Peter speaking. The addressees, the people to whom it's addressed, are, uh, probably the same as One Peter. Th- This is one of those questions which can't really be answered. Probably the same as One Peter, especially since there's a reference in chapter 3 verse 1 to a previous letter. The previous letter could easily be One Peter. Chapter 3 verse 1 refers to a previous letter, which may well be One Peter, in which case that suggests that both letters were sent to the same people. I will finish this introduction then we'll, then we'll do the ... The purpose, (clears throat), the purpose of the letter, principally a warning against false teachers. One Peter was Christians must accept to suffer, must learn to suffer. Two, they must not listen to false teachers. A warning against false teachers. The date, close to 64 or 67, whichever is the date of Peter's death. 64 or 67 AD obviously, whichever is the d- date of Peter's death, because of chapter 1 verse 14 in which Peter speaks about his imminent death, like Saint Paul speaks of his imminent death in which epistle? Darby? II Timothy. Well done, that's right, II Timothy, that's it. "I fought the good fight, I've run the course, I have, I've run the course, I've fought the good fight, I have kept the faith." That's it, well done. And a reward, uh, me- repositas mihi magna, corona, uh, uh, a great reward is waiting for me like for all those who serve God. Um, so Peter also knew his de- death was coming, uh, 1 verse 14. So it'll be close to 64 or 67. In... One of the main inter- interesting points of this epistle to Peter is its Judity (laughs). That's to say, its closeness to the Epistle of Jude, which we've already seen. Judenas. There are considerable similarities of language and content such that either Peter borrowed from Jude or Jude borrowed from Peter or they both borrowed from some third source. Considerable similitudes, similarities of language and content, especially Jude 4 to 18, Jude 4 to 18, alongside 2 Peter 2 verse 1 to 3 verse 3. We'll see that as we go into it. Jude 4 verse 4 to 18 alongside 2 Peter chapter 2 verse 1 to 3 verse 3. The errors described, the ordering of the thoughts, the scri- examples from scripture are the same and then, or the, im- enormously similar. The same words are used, the same grammatical figures. The, as you can imagine, the experts, uh, ask themselves, "Who borrowed from who? Who, who wrote after who?" Guess what the answer is? We don't know. No, that's not what they say. (laughs) That's not what they say. That's what I would say, but that's not what they say. They say, Holden? They don't know which one is 2 Peter 5 or 3. Yeah. No, basically they say that they don't know. Yeah. (laughs) They examine very carefully all the arguments on one side and all the arguments on the other, then they, they finally, they sort of say they don't know. So it's, it really is uncertain. But just notice in passing the remarkable similarities of content and language. Place? Presumably Rome, especially if 1 Pet- if 2 Peter was written close on the heels of 1 Peter. 1 Peter we know is written in Rome. So if 2 Peter follows close on 1 Peter, it's every likelihood it's also written in Rome. But there's no, nothing in the epistle to indicate it. In the first epistle we saw at the end the reference to Babylon, uh, which is Rome. In the second epistle, there's no such reference but if it follows close on the heels of 1 Peter that's where it would have been. All right. Is it now working? Let's see if it now works. (instrumental music plays) (Latin speaking)... about to discover everything strictly. Repeat a little louder. This is about as exciting as you could get music to be in the 18th century. (singing) Here's the register. How much fear there will be. When the judge is to come. Shaking everything strictly apart. (singing) You can hear the trumpet this clear. (trumpet playing) (singing) This of course, is from Matthew, the picture of the last judgment in Matthew. Every detail of this sequence comes from scripture. (singing) We'll bring everyone in front of the throne. This is the tenor. Deaths will be astonished of nature when the preacher will rise again to reply to the judge. The written book will be brought forward in which everything is contained, from which the world is to be judged. (singing) This is the soprano or the contralto. Contralto, I think. Whatever is hidden will appear when the judge will sit down. Nothing will remain unavenged. That's the soprano. (singing) Convicts used to sit the curse. When barely the just man, barely the just man sits the curse. (singing) Convicts used to sit the curse. We'll listen on a bit more. King of tremendous majesty. Obviously, the music is majestic. (singing) Qui salvandos salvas gratis. (singing) Salvas gratis. (speaks Latin). Pleading. (singing)Recuerdari Jesus Christ. Remember, pious Jesus, that I am the cause of Thy life. Of their way, rather, of Thy way. (instrumental music plays) Quod sum causa tuae viae. Me ne perdas in die. Do not damn me on that day. Seeking me, you sat down weary. You redeemed me suffering the cross. Let such toil not be in vain. Just judge of, of vengeance. Grant me forgiveness before the day of reckoning. (singing) I groan as though guilty. My face is red with guilt. (singing) The feeling, to he who begs, despair of hope. Thou who absolvedst Mary Magdalene and heardest the good thief, has given me also hope. (singing) My prayers are not worthy. But be kind. Lest I burn in eternal fire. Place me amongst the sheep. And separate me from the goats. Setting me on your right hand. Mozart put it in halfway through this piece, this next piece, Confutatis Maledictis. (singing) The evildoers confounded and cast into bitter flames. Vocum mecum peccator call me with the blessed. Completely different. (instrumental music plays) Braver doers. Call me with a blessing. (instrumental music plays)... I beg in supplication. (latin music) My heart contract like ashes. (latin music) Watch over my end. (latin music) Lacrimosa dies illa, day of weeping, that day of weeping, on which will rise again from the dust, the man to be judged, the guilty man to be judged. (latin music) Day of weeping. (latin music) You can hear the violins weeping. (latin music) On which will rise from the dust. (latin music) Man to be judged guilty. (latin music) (cheering) Lacrimosa dies illa, weeping. (latin music) To this one, therefore, spare . (latin music) Kyrie Jesu Domine, kind Jesus Lord. (latin music) Grant them peace. (latin music) Amen. (latin music) The Mozart Requiem is a great piece. Uh, Verdi's Requiem is much more theatrical. But, um, how can a, a Catholic good boy, very, very good boy Catholic be so naughty as to join Freemasonry? And then once he's joined Freemasonry, how can he write music like that? Uh, which is, um, full of Catholicism. Answer, uh, in case you hadn't noticed or in case nobody had ever told you, is human beings are complicated. (laughing) You know, when you get everything in the books, it's all separate, clear, logical, distinct, bad is bad and good is good, white is white and black is black. But when you get to real human beings, the whole thing is awfully mixed up. So Mozart was, uh, uh, but, uh, it's certain, at the end of his life then, and he thought he was writing the Requiem for himself. I mean, he, his death hung over him. Uh, he, his obviously his Catholic childhood and everything, his Catholicism came back and he, um... Actually, even when he was writing for the Freemasons, his music has a, the beau- all the beauty of his music comes from his Catholic training and background. That's not to say that he, it doesn't matter whether he joined, joined the Masonry or what. Of course, the Freemasons tried to use him as, uh, as to, for their glory. But Freemasonry kills art dead. It doesn't, it can't produce that at all. This is no more than Protestantism can produce art. (clearing throat) (mic cutting out)