Now, the 2:10 was about the 2:00. I was, uh, just 10 minutes out of, uh, 10 minutes out of whack. Uh, chapter 17, chap- chapter 18, chapter 17, verse seven, is that right? Yes. No, we're beyond that. Chapter 18. Verse 15. 18. Chapter 18. Oh, chapter 18. Verse one. Verse one, okay. We finished chapter 17 18, also. Okay. All right, um, uh, chapter 18, um, the woman is sensuality building an empire of evil. All right. Chapter 18, the pub- punishment of Babylon. Now this, hold on, um, 18. Okay, we're moving into the sixth vision. Uh, the first was the le- seven letters. The second one was the seven seals. The third was the seven trumpets. The fourth was the salts of hell, the dragon, and the woman, the two beasts, the justice of the lamb, 12, 13, 14. The fifth was the seven cups or seven vials of divine anger. And of that fifth vision, the scarlet woman in seven- chapter 17 was like an appendix. Uh, so we now move into the sixth grand vision, which is final j- divine justice, and the final divine justice includes the ruin of Babylon, 18, the victory of Christ, 19, and the final ruin and, of the one, and victory of the other, the final ruin and victory, culminating again in the final judgment. So I think we've, uh, as I said, it's the letter (person coughing) to the seven churches was spread out evenly over all seven ages of the history of the church. The la- the seven seals began to cons- concentrate towards the end. For instance, the fifth age was the, the church suffering in all times. The s- sorry, the fifth seal was the church suffering in all times. The sixth seal was the persecution of the Antichrist, so we were jumping forward to the end. There was slightly a fast-forward to the end. And then the seventh is the after the Antichrist. So there's a slight concentration on the end. The seven trumpets, you've got, um, the first four are like the four, first four ages of the church, more or less, but then the fifth jumps to, again, fast-forward to the heresies preceding the Antichrist. That's the locusts of ni- of chapter nine, the modernists, then the two witnesses, uh, the return of the two witnesses. Again, there's m- more, there's still more emphasis on the end. The dragon and the woman has a little about the beginning of the church, the, uh, a little about the beginning of the church and a little about, a little of what came in the fourth age, was it? Um, there was a little of the intermediate period, but then the two beasts and the justice of the lamb is o- obviously the end. So there you've got two chapters out of three which deal with the end. So that the, each successive vision s- concentrates a little more towards the end of church history. In other words, the greatest fight and persecution of all. The fifth vision, which is the seven vials, uh, is seven kinds of punishment, but again it's mostly the, uh... Well, the first three are the li- the ei- the apostles sp- teaching to the, preaching to the Jews. The second vial, the apostles preaching to the Gentiles. Then the third vial, the doctors. (coughs) But then the fourth now jumps forward to the end of the world, the Antichrist, the beast, uh, five hypocrites, et cetera. So again, uh, at least half is the end. Um, and then the, now the, the final divine justice is still more than half the end. The final divine justice is wholly the end. Chapter 17 is the ruin of Babylon.I'm sorry, chapter 18 is the ruin of Babylon. Chapter 19 is the victory of Christ. Chapter 20, the very end of that ruin and that victory. So it's still more zeroing in on the end of church history. So, that's a very broad pattern of the Apocalypse. Um, that's very broad. That's one reading's very broad pattern. Gosh, there are so many different ways of reading it, but that's a reading that does pull it all together in a certain way. All right. The final divine justice, the ruin of Babylon, chapter 18. (coughs) After these things, I saw another angel coming down from Heaven, having great power, and the earth was illuminated by his glory, and he cried out in his strength saying, "Babylon the Great has fallen, has fallen, and it has become the dwelling place of devils, and the, uh, sanctuary of all, uh, the wildlife park of every unclean spirit, and the wildlife park of every unclean bird, unclean and hateful bird, because all the nations have drunk of the wine of the, uh, of the wrath of its fornication, and the kings of the earth have- (coughs) ... fornicated with it, and the merchants of the earth, uh, have become rich, uh, on the, by strength of its delights." Another angel... So, uh, the sixth vision is the judgment of God at the end of the world and the condemnation of Babylon. The condemnation of Babylon, the condemnation of the Antichrist, 19, and the condemnation of the devil, verse 20. So that's another way of looking at this, these three chapters. 18, the condemnation of Babylon. 19, the condemnation of the Antichrist. 20, the condemnation of the devil. So, uh, the angel is Christ in verse 1 of 18. Coming down from Heaven in the incarnation. (coughs) Having great power and that earth was illuminated by his glory. Glory in Excelsis Deo et in terra pax hominibus bonae voluntatis. And he cried out, he proclaimed in a great, in his strength saying, uh, "Proclaiming..." What Christ proclaims is the warning of the end of the world in the Gospels. Christ warns the end of the world in the Gospels. He proclaims in a strong voice, proclaims in a strong voice, the, this is the... He cannot be silenced. The preaching of Christ cannot be silenced. They tried to silence it, but they couldn't. He proclaims in strength saying, "Babylon the Great has fallen, has fallen." Babylon is the empire of evil welcoming devils. It's fallen. The empire of evil welcoming devils, the dwelling place of devils. Just look at New York today, for instance, New York here in the United States, goodness gracious, London or Paris, just the same. Uh, there was that quote in, uh- (coughs) ... in a newsletter the other day, or the other month, uh, the people in the streets are about ready to tear one another to pieces. That's Blacks in the streets of New York. It's, um, a Jew and a Jewess who are con- converts, who he's died since, but she still re- calls me on the phone. And, um, she, she says the... Of course, actually she called me the other day, and she said she's got to be in her 60s, I would guess. He died same age, same sort of age. She's a convert. She's a real con- She has the faith, and, um, she also has real, she has real Jewish features, but she has the faith. Makes, makes all the difference. (laughs) Um, she said, "It's for soon." She rang me up and said (inaudible　00:05:24) "It's for soon." She's in the streets of New York every day to get, get her groceries and so on. She meets with these Blacks. The Blacks are deeply discontented, if you like, rebellious. And, um, she says that, you know, war in the streets or blood in the streets. I forget exactly what they said to her. She, she and her husband quoted them saying a little while ago, "Nothing against you personally," they said to her. "Nothing against you personally, but we're going to kill all of you." Something like that, you know. I don't know how much consolation it is to know that it isn't personal. (laughs) To know that it isn't personal. To me that... It sounds highly likely, completely likely, and it's the fault, the, the, the whites, it's the f-... Now you can't say it's all the fault of the whites. Ah, that's stupid. It's the fault of the Blacks, of course. But if the Blacks had been properly led, if they hadn't been, uh-... misled into this cul-de-sac, what do you call it in American, um, blind street, blind alley, um- Dead end. ... dead end. If they hadn't been led into this dead end of materialism, uh, by the whites, they wouldn't be like that. They weren't like that on the plantations in the South. The liberals thought they knew better. The liberals destroyed the South. And the liberals, they all came streaming up, up north. They, they've been sold on how wonderful things are in the North, how enlightened we are in the North, how superior we are in the North. Um, and what have they been given? Money, essentially. And they destroy a whole quarter of, of Los Angeles and what happens? The government simply goes in and builds it all up again, keeping them quiet with money. The whites don't like the Blacks. They don't really respect the Blacks. There's a great pretense of union and so on, but it's, it's not for real. And because there's no, there's no real charity in it, there's no love of God in it. It's just, "We liberals is superior. We are all equal." It, it's, it's humanism, liberty, and equality. So they, they, they give the Blacks a whole lot of liberty. They give them a whole lot of equality. (coughs) Poor Blacks don't know what to do with it. They just simply fill the prisons. And to build more prisons is all that the whites can do to, to keep things together, more or less. I don't want to exaggerate and I don't want to be... But it's the whites' fault. It's the liberals and the whites is what's absolutely poisoned the Blacks. And so- (laughs) ... you, you get the law, what do you call it? The law of diminishing returns or the law of rising disappointed expectations, the law of rising disappointments. When people start getting disappointed with materialism, you give them more material goodies. And of course, that simply puts it off, because when they get dis- disappointed with those material goodies, then you have to give them even more. It's like a drug. You have to give increasing shots of material goodies. Well, there comes a time when you can't, there aren't any more material goodies to give out. And the law of rising disappointments is, is that there's going to be a big explosion at the end of the line. And the Blacks are such, they don't care what they destroy. I mean, in Los Angeles, it shows. They, they, they don't have the brains to go and destroy everybody else's quarters. They, they- (laughs) ... they destroy some, some of everybody else's quarters, but they destroy mostly their own. They destroy their own facilities. It's just they, uh, um, some circuit of f- some... There's a short circuit takes place, and then boom, (laughs) the whole thing goes up. (laughs) And, you know, that's how they are, and it's not how they have to be, and they... Uh, the Archbishop Lefebvre, uh, the Catholic Church in Africa has done wonders, obviously, has done real wonders. The Catholic Church works with them as well as it works with anybody, but on condition that the whites do what the whites have to do. If you want to call that racialism, you're welcome. Call it racialism, if you like. Just like if you want to call distinguishing between men and women, if you want to call that sexism, call it sexism, if you like. But it's reality. In old, the olden times, I mean, I can remember when I used to visit South Africa, uh, that was the end of the '70s, beginning of the '80s, I was there three or four, four summers in a row from, from the seminary in Switzerland. And the people who gave you the most accurate... The people who you could rely on to give you the most accurate picture of what's really happening, the Catholic missionaries, the Catholic priests. They're the ones that they didn't have an ax to grind. They, you know, the ones that were doing their work. Not, of course, the leftist priests, for goodness sakes. They've lost it. But the Catholic priests that had the faith and were trying to work for the faith and for the Church, they're the ones that, that saw best and told you guys what was actually happening. And, you know, they know that, that it's... the, the, the races are different, just like the sexes are different. And as Thomas Aquinas will show you in the Summa, you, you, you analyze, you, you, you state the existence of something, existence. Firstly, ansit, does it exist? The question of existence. Then quidsit, uh, that's often article two, the essence, what you're defining. You firstly prove that it exists, then you define it. What is it? What is its nature? Um, then, uh, quotsit, like quotsit, that is to say, its parts. How many parts? Is there... What's the division? The essence, the part, then it- the, the division of what it is. You divide it up, and then after the parts, um, the ordo. Ordo, now there's the order of parts. The division of parts, the order of parts. In other words, that's, that's a general pattern of works of uni- uni- union. You'll rarely find it as neatly as that, but at the back of Saint Thomas' mind, that's often the plan on which he is laying out a question. And, um, uh, how a thing divides, and then the order of the parts, because the parts will be in, in an order. There will be a first part, a leading part, and then a second part. The human, what's a human being? Do humans exist? Well, looks like it. Uh, what is a human being? A rational animal.How many are there? Well, or what kinds are there? The species, the parts, divisions, species. (writer writing) The different species (marker tapping). And the order of parts or species. What are- what- what are the- what's the difference between the various parts? Which is the leading part? The mankind, what are the different races? It's obvious that there are different races and it's obvious, it's obvious to, it's absolutely obvious that the ra- races have characteristics, that different races have different characters. Different nations in one race have a different character. Different parts of a nation have different character. The south of France is fairly different from the north of France, and, uh, the south of England from the n- north of England. (laughs) Um, I have to pluck up me courage to say so. (laughs) But it's true. It's true. Um, uh, then the, uh, inside... And then one parish is different from another. The missions, if- where- if you're a priest, you'll go around the missions of the society. Every single mission is different. It's got a different atmosphere that, like the Epistles of Saint Paul. (laughs) Each Epistle of Saint Paul, uh, uh, the- it's obvious that the Philippians are quite different from Thessalonians, and it's obvious also that the Epistle is written with the, uh, particular church in mind. Uh, Paul- Paul is, uh, i- i- it's, uh, these- the letters are the fruits of a two-way traffic. Paul is writing to this particular people. He knows how they are, and they're quite different from the- the- the churches are all different. Uh, our Lord's creation, God's creation is- has got differences all the way and amongst those differences, those differences mean inequalities. Saint Thomas Aquinas, in question 47, which have you yet got to 47 in Dei Dio Creator? So you've seen the question on inequality. Why are things in- unequal? Uh, uh, and then origin tries to say, because you know, we get this- (coughs) ... we have this tremendous instinct of equality. Everything- everything in order to be just ought to be equal. That's- that's why it's called equity. If it's unequal, it's unjust. Now, I observe inequality everywhere in creation, therefore, God is unjust. "No," says Saint Thomas Aquinas, "No, God designs inequality because each part has got- i- i- of his creation, has got a different part to play." It's- it's... And every part that as it coming from the hands of God is suitable, is well designed, every inequality is well designed for whatever it is going to do. And therefore, you can't- you can't con- if you constructed a humanity which is all chiefs and no Indians, it wouldn't work. If it was all Indians and no chiefs, it wouldn't work. God spills out his gifts in such a way that there's the right, as it come- as coming from the hands of God, there's the right number of chiefs and the right number of Indians. If men then choose to wipe out all the Indians and pretend that everybody's chiefs, that's man's problem and he's going to create a mega problem in reality because it's out of line with reality. But that's Rousseau, you saw it. This- this- this crazy i- imposition of i- equality on everything. Leo XIII says the same thing. You cannot force equalize the realities of life- (coughs) ... which are the, in all respect, in all directions you see inequality. The point is not to level out all inequality and make everybody equal. The point is that everybody should be doing what they're meant to be doing, what God has gifted them to do. And if God has gifted somebody with special privileges and, and, uh, talents, he's not to waste them by going- going and becoming a beach bum in California. He can do that. It's easily within his powers. But he's g- he's gonna take, th- there's gonna be a grave responsibility when, with his talents, he goes in front of God's judgment seat and says, "Well, all I did was went off and spent my days on the beach." "That's not what I gave you those talents for," the Lord God's going to say. "I gave you those talents to become a leader, to share out, share the use of those talents with your fellow human beings, to guide them and instruct them, enlighten them. That's what I gave you those gifts for. I didn't give you your gifts to say, 'I know better than anyone else and we're all meant to be equal and so I'm gonna behave as low as the lowest.' That's not what I gave you those gifts for. And you have gone against my plan. In the name of equality, you've gone against my plan and you'll take the consequences down below." And, uh, the races are different and if each does what it can do best, there's gonna be harmony. Uh, if each does what it does best, harmonized and synchronized by the Catholic Church, there's gonna be harmony. The Catholic Church is not an accepted persons. Look at that. Turn to the Epistle of James. You know, you may know this passage. If you don't, you should. Um, so James, uh, I don't... When you come to church, don't start pulling rank. In other words, okay, out in the world, hey, no problem, but in church it's a different ballgame. Before God, we are all equal and that's all that really matters, but that doesn't need to say that before the world we're all equal. Uh, anybody, where is it? Um, which- James 2:2. Chapter? 2:2. There you are. Uh, have- um, uh, chapter 2, "My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with respect of persons." Um, that's it. Don't- don't mix up faith with respect of persons. "If there come into your assembly a man having a gold ring in fine apparel, and there shall come and also a man in mean attire, and you were, uh, respect him that is clothed with fine apparel and you say, 'Sit here in this front seat,' wherever it says. You'll say to the poor man, 'Get to the back here.' Speaker 1: Yeah. "Stand there." Speaker 1: Yeah. "Do you not judge within yourselves and now become judges of unjust thoughts?"You're, you're treating people in the house of God according to the appearances of the world. How come, my dearest brethren, hath not God chosen the poor in this world? Rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which God has promised to them that love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Do not... Look, you honor the rich and yet how do the rich behave towards you, the church? They oppress you with their might. They, they, they, they, they file lawsuits against you. They blaspheme the good, good name that's invoked upon you. If then you love thy neighbor as yourself, you do well, but it... You love your neighbor and before God in the house of God as Catholics... And, you know, I don't want to idealize the South. Slavery is a dangerous institute given poor old human nature. Slavery is a dangerous institution, but it's not necessarily a mortal sin. It's a, it's a dangerous opportunity for one class of people, whoever they are, to exploit another class. And it's an, an opportunity which, which will... difficult to be resisted, but it's not the ultimate sin because liberty is not the ultimate good. If liberty was the ultimate good, then slavery would be the ultimate evil, and that's why in liberalism slavery is... passes for the ultimate evil, but it isn't the ultimate evil. It's a system which can be operated well, which is dangerous, but which can be operated. And in the South, uh, there was more respect of per- there was more, um, respect, not respected persons in the sense here, but there more... there was more, uh, knowledge of the Black man and, if you like, appreciation of who he is and what he is than there's ever been in the liberal North. Um, if you have respect for persons, you commit sin being (murmuring) transgressors. Uh, then he moves on to another point. So, um, you know, the Catholic Church, uh, uh, as, as Catholics before God, those... as mor- eh, we're all souls before the, the judgment... we're all gonna come before the judgment seat of God and there we're all going to be judged with absolute equality, according to our talents and our gifts and position. Those in higher position more severely than those in lower position, those with more talents, more severely than those with less talents. And it's gonna be, it's gonna be absolutely equal. There, and that's the only real sense, we're absolutely equal. And of course, it's because of that, it's that instinctive realization that in some deep way all of us human beings are equal, it's that deep instinct that, that is reacting against inequalities in such a ways to make Origen, O-R-I-G-E-N... Origen pretends that it's because some men sinned that they fell lower and so he tries to connect, he tries to explain the inequality as part of... uh, as a punishment. The inequality is a punishment. Uh, no, says Saint Thomas. Right? It's, it's in that same article. Origen says it's, it's, it's part of a punishment. No, it isn't. It isn't part of a punishment. We are not... It's God's plan and it is... For a, an untalented person to pretend that he's talented or to behave as though he's talented is as much... is, is no more against God's plan than for a talented person to pretend that he's untalented. Therefore, if the whites go around saying, "We are not special. We're not... we haven't got anything s- special that we have to give, we haven't got a special part to play, we..." et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, that is against God's plan as much as some poor so-and-so saying that we're just as good as anybody else. We're just as bad as anybody else is perhaps in a certain respect even more of a betrayal than the poor, poor so-and-sos who say, "We're just as good as anybody else." I know, I don't want to exaggerate and don't make me say what I don't, what I'm not saying, but, but think, watch and think. And, um, the modern world, it, it has got it completely wrong. It's liberalism wants more, as usual. Liberalism is, is so powerful. Why is liberalism so powerful? Why is Rousseau, why has Rousseau got such magnetic power to defy reality? That's what it is. He's defying reality. Why? What, what ball and chain, what wrecking ball is Rousseau swinging that he can knock down so much reality? Why, why communism? Communism is, again, a complete defiance of reality. Just make everything everybody's property and then everybody will work much harder and they will be much better than they were ever, than when they ever were when there was private property. That's socialism. Just let everything belong to the, belong to the state and then everybody's going to be wonderful. Where does such nonsense get such power from? It's a huge question. What did Father Escarra tell you? I think, I'm sure he did tell you. Why has Rousseau got so much kick? What gives him his... Schmidt? It has, it has to do with the time when he was writing, I bet, but it also has to do with other things. He paints pictures very well. Yes, yes, but why do his pictures- (inaudible) Certainly. And the ego. Certainly. That delusion. Certainly. But on the other... eh, uh, in the... in Christendom, man still had all that, all that original sin and pride locked up in him. No... the, the... human nature is just as weak then as it is in Rousseau's time and, uh, and yet people didn't use pride as a ball, a wrecking chain to... a wrecking ball to smash down Christendom.You don't need a guide because you're God. That's got a lot to do with it. Uh, that's got a lot to do with it. Now you're getting warm. Uh, the point is that the, the, the, it's a debased Christianity. It's, it's the Christianity before Christ, a Roman senator would have read those words of James, Julius Caesar would have read those words of James, absurd, ridiculous. There are we senators and then there's the people. And quite frankly the people, my dear fellow, uh... (laughs) I mean, you can't possibly have the people in the same part of the building as yourselves. I mean, do you know, my dear fellow... I mean, it's, it's just incon- such equality, before Christ, that equality was inconceivable. It's the Church, it's the Catholic Church that gave men this idea that they're all equal. In other words, it's the certainty that we are all, uh, you know, before the judgment seat of God, redeemed by Christ, uh, know you not that you are, you're redeemed at no cheap price, but, but by the precious blood of the Lamb, says Saint Peter. And that this, he's also been redeemed by the precious blood of Christ. Wow. Yes. Ma- ye- yes. (laughs) I mean, I will start overriding my instincts. I will start... And then as, you know, you give him a bath or two, you're persuaded that it's worth giving him a bath or two, and then of course, it's a little easier to embrace him once you've given him a bath and so on. I mean, there's a whole process of, if you like, deep down of a, there's a deep, deep down sense of equality of, of all human beings being belonging to one family in Christ. There's now no thr- the end of Galatians 3, the end of Galatians 3. Now there's no, uh, there's neither, as many as you have been baptized in Christ have put on Christ. This is it. See? So the key to equality is Christ. Now there's neither Jew nor Greek, there's neither bond nor free. No, there's no, there's no slave man or free man any longer. Neither male nor female for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Do you think that Saint Paul is abolishing the difference between man and woman? No. What he's doing is he's saying that there is in Christ a deep down equality between man and woman which nobody before Christ had ever dreamt of. Then when Christ, after Christ, when Christ disappears, you've got a completely new problem. You've got all of these instincts of equality, deep down and just instincts of equality, which nobody naturally would dream of because it's so much against reality, but against normal workaday reality. But in Christ, when you have the faith, you see worka- you see workaday reality without denying reality. You see reality in a much higher light. So firstly, one, you've got ugly reality because of original sin and all the rest of it. Then two, you have reality, that same reality, but, uh, lifted into, lifted by Christ into a, just a quite different, this is a completely different dimension. So here there's no equality worth speaking of. When you see it in Christ, yes, there's equality. Then thirdly, Christ gets knocked out. Uh, wh- when Christ is knocked out, what happens then to, uh, your reality? It's as ugly as ever, but now lifted by Christ, you get an idea of eq- uh, an idea of equality gets in there. And that equality, of course, suits prime. So when Christ goes, equality doesn't go, but equality is still there to swear at reality. Now, equality and reality are fighting one another. The, the, eh, when Christ is gone, there's nothing to hold up the equality. Equality, and the equality has dropped back into the reality, and the equality and the reality fight one another. And the, the problem is the disappearance of Christ. The problem is the loss of the faith. Where does Rousseau get all his kick from? He gets it from these Christian ideas of Christendom. (sneezes) He's, Rousseau is pretending that this will work. Uh, Rousseau is pretending that you can make Christendom work without Christ. And the idea that Christendom will work without Christ is a very popular idea. We're gonna have the best of both worlds. We're gonna have all the advantages of Christ and then all the advantages of the devil and original sin. We're gonna w- we can, as they say in German, "We can dance at both marriages." 'Cause if, if two of my friends got marri- got married the same Saturday, I, it was difficult to dance on both marriages. But then s- so i- in English you say to have it both ways. With Rousseau, you can have it both ways. You can have all the advantages of Jesus Christ and all the advantages of the devil. Hey. And anybody who offers men a way of combining Christ and the devil is going to, uh, have an attractive product, but it's, it's absolutely false. Every time you try to combine the two, it's false, but it's always attractive. And so the power of Rousseau comes from, um, uh, protecting that the fruits of Christ can be had without Christ. That's really what it is. Now, what was the ques- previous question to that? That's why, uh, why did that come up? And so, uh, liberalism, th- the, the north pretending that, th- that, that if the, if the Blacks, wi- that with liberalism, the Blacks are gonna be e- treated equally and everything is gonna be wonderful, that's this. That's exactly this. It's, it's Rousseau. We're all equal. We're a- we're all wonderful. No problems. It's, the only way this equality can possibly fit reality is when it's lifted, when it's been, it comes from being lifted by Christ. But if you take Christ out, then everything... The same with, with capital punishment. Uh, but I...