Where are we? Oh, yes. The verse 15, 16 of chapter 9. Uh... Let's have a look at the English first. Um... "And the sixth angel sounded the trumpet and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before the eyes of God-" (coughs) "... saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, 'Loose the four angels who are bound in the great river Euphrates.' And the four angels were loosed who were, who were prepared for an hour and a day and a month and a year for to kill the third part of men. And the number of the army horsemen was 20,000 times 10,000 and I heard the number of them. And thus, I saw the horses in the vision and they s- they that sat on them had breastplates of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions, and from their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone. And by these three plagues was slain the third part of men, by the fire and by the smoke and by the brimstone which issued out of their mouths." "For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads, and with them they hurt. And the rest of the men who were not slain by these plagues did not do penance from the works of their hands, that they should not adore devils, and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which neither can see nor hear nor walk." "Neither did they repent from their murders, nor from their sorceries, nor from their fornication, nor from their thefts." Once again, the sixth angel is the preachers battling with the Antichrist himself in the pe- under the period... the very most difficult time of all. And what did we see last time? Uh... The one voice is, is tradition, Catholic tradition, the voice of the church, uh, telling the preachers to, um... that the devil's four angels, in this case, four devils, undermining hell, heaven, the wrongness of sin and the rightness of virtue will be let loose like a deep floody- flood river of passions running from Babylon down to hell, the Euphrates down to the ocean of hell to kill the third part of men. Uh, in this case... Actually, it doesn't... I don't see quite how this fits with the end because I've just noticed, um, "The rest of the men who were not slain by these plagues..." Oh, no. Uh, that's verse 18. "By these three plagues were slain the third part of men." We'll come to that. I told you because you remember that in Verse 15 he said that it's, in this case, it's those who are impenitent, neither the innocents. The devils of the passions let loose aren't the flood of diabolical... the flood of diabolism, the flood of anti-Catholicism let loose under the Antichrist which will, like a great... like a muddy river, just destroy everything. A river overflowing its banks. Floods are devastating. I've never been in one but I've, I know of some. Of course, you know why there were so many floods in the Midwest shortly after Clinton came to power? 'Cause he took all the dykes with him to Washington. (laughs) Um, uh... So, the four angels that let loose, they're ready to pounce on the moment that they get their power. They're like devils on the leash and they're let loose, they're... To kill the third part of men, all those who are impenitent, neither those who are innocent, neither those who are guilty but repented, but those who are guilty and that will not repent. "The number of the army of horsemen was 20,000 times 10,000." Right, we were saying that the horsemen are the numberless hosts of the damned elite. You'd say today, bureau- Washington bureaucrats. The bureaucrats, the elite that run things and they're all damned. Numberless bureaucrats and they're all damned, virtually speaking. Uh, the journalists also, the university teachers, the school teachers, all of these people who are... they're supposedly elite. Uh, they are like horsemen. They're riding the masses, teaching the masses, misleading the masses, working with the devils against God. So, those are the cavaliers, Verse 16. There's a lot of them. You look around today. About what percentage lead? Does anybody know? I think Lennon has a quote about that. He says, "Give me..." dun, dun, dun, "And I will take over the country." Oh, "Tennyson Francis is this one thing," he said. Yes, that's the, that's the... Tennyson Francis could have done it but he said... he wasn't thinking of working with Sir Francis. (laughs) Anybody know who... how many... I th- I for...He made a- he- a figure... I remember- I remember a figure of 1%. He's... If you just got... It all depends. If they're just convinced enough, it all depends the grade of conviction. If they're convinced enough that the more, the greater the conviction, the fewer you need. And today, the Catholic Church, the situation of the church could be thrown into reverse by, uh, quite a small number of really, of really convinced, but they have to be really convinced. No half and half romance will do. Um, so, uh, in this case, the bureaucrats, they're- they're numberless, and they are numberless too. Why does the government have so many people working for it? The- why do the governments, it's not just the United States, have so many people working for them? Various reasons. Anybody? What are one of the reasons? They don't want to disagree with them on government policy. You got it. They- they... If they take a paycheck from the government, you're not gonna stand up and fight the government. That's- that's quite a bit of it. What's another... That's one major reason. What's another major reason? It's the old story, Dona Securitas. If men won't govern themselves from inside, they'll have to be governed from outside. So the wilder men become, the more uncontrolled men become, the less religion they have, the more government they must have. And then people react and they say, "Oh, you've got to deregulate." So you deregulate and then what happens if you do deregulate? Naughty men pick up the ball and run with it, and then you have to regulate again to stop them doing it. In other words, it goes back to what the founding fathers said, "You can't have a free society unless the people are self-controlled." If the people are not self-controlled, they'll have to be government controlled. It's as simple as that. And Madison and Washington and Franklin, they all said it in- in one way or another, that what the government, the American style of government presupposes is self-controlled and virtuous citizens. And if you haven't got self-controlled and virtuous citizens, there's no way that this form of government will work. And it's, now it's breaking down. It's breaking down. The admiration for Clinton show, who's completely un-self-controlled, he's got no self-control at all, the admiration for him shows, is that's why you've got the police state and the prisons and the rest of it, and it's inevitable. And that's what it's gonna be like under the Antichrist. So, um, the horses, verse 17, "And thus I saw the horses in the vision and they that sat on them," uh, the... "And thus I saw the horses in the vision." And it comes back to the cavaliers, uh, back to the horsemen. "They that sat on them had breast plates of fire and heisen of brimstone. The heads of the horses were heads of lions and from their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone." So horses and horsemen, an interesting vision. The horses are the damned masses on which the elite ride. All of your televidiots... who go to the sports stadiums and do the wave. Poor things. Misereor super tuibum. Sick, do you know what that means? Misereor super tuibum. Schmidt? Misery is upon the masses. No, not misery is upon the masses. No, misereor. It's the verb, misereor, from which we get the second person singular present imperative, miserere nostri domine, miserere nostri. So misereor is what's known as a deponent verb, passive in form and active in meaning, and it means... Weber? I pity. Yes. Therefore, misereor super tuibum is... I pity. "I have pity on the crowd." Our Lord says it. I don't know where. Does anybody know exactly where that quote occurs? Misereor super tuibum. "I have- I have pity on the crowd." I'd need a concordance to find it. Yes? Ezekiel 5:20. Maybe. Maybe. Yes. Uh, that might be ma- around Matthew 10. No, Matthew 10 is a, is a discourse to the disciples. Matthew 9, Matthew 11, somewhere around there. Misereor super tuibum. We need a concordance here. "I have, I have pity on the crowd." Walk through an airport and think of those words. Misereor super tuibum. These poor people. Anybody see it? Uh, Summers? Matthew 24:14. What's it say? We survive what comes 10:30. Uh, what's the... That may be in Luke then. What's the parallel? Does it give you a parallel quote there? Matthew 9:36. Matthew 9:36. Matthew 9:36. Is that it? Matthew 9:36. "I have pity on the crowd." There we are. Um, the damned masses on which ride the elite. Uh, breastplates. The hor- we're back to the horsemen for a moment. Breastplates. Hearts hardened against grace. The breastplate was a metal covering of the whole chest with straps to hold it on behind, a breastplate. No use against, not much use against bullets, but against daggers and lances it would help. So, uh...Hearts hardened against grace. Uh, breastplates of fire, fire with the desire to set the whole universe aflame. Crash and burn. Is that expression familiar to anybody, crash and burn? Hoffman? (laughs) (laughs) Crash and burn. At 6:29:50. (laughs) Every morning on the dot. (laughs) Or 53, 53, 55. (laughs) Uh, crash and burn. Anybody know, anybody know, nobody know that expression? Is it a, uh, come from a <|agent|><|en|> (laughs) ... a damn gun? I think it refers to just basically crashes. Crash and burns. No, I don't think it... Crash and burn. I think it's rappers. I think it's one of the rappers. I'm thinking so, heavy metal. Ah, yeah. Heavy metal or the rappers. That, they're now, we're in the ballpark here. I think so. Crash and burn. All right. Um, so, uh, fiery with the desire to set the whole world on, in flames. Set the whole world on fire. Not the fire of our Lord obviously, but the fire of the devil. Crash and burn. In the ghettos, uh, in the United States, in Burn Baby Burn- (clears throat) ... inhabited by people who have, uh, not light skins- (laughs) ... but who is politically incorrect a name. Uh, cra- burn, baby burn. Um, fiery with the desire to set the whole world on fire. Burn, baby burn. Hyacinth blue, that's the, uh, that is the Latin word, hyacinthinus, yes. Hyacinth blue from the illusion of their heavenly nature. From the illusion of their heavenly nature. They take themselves to be saints. And it's, gosh, that, well, I mean, that's still true today. People baptize their own sins. Who's the, one of the firstest and greatest modern baptizers of sin? Anybody? In modern times? Rousseau. Rousseau, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. That's his hallmark. Enable you to sin while thinking you're still Christian. That's, that's the size of it. Uh, hyacinth blue from the illusion, the illusion of their heavenly nature. Sulfurous from the stink of their unnatural lust. Brimstone is sulfur. Sulfurous from the stink of their unnatural lust. The heads of the horses were as the heads of lions. The heads of the horses are the her- leaders of heresies and leaders of persecutions. The leaders of heresies and leaders of persecutions. Um, they're like the heads of lions. They are lionish because of their proud and cruel readiness to devour everybody. To devour everybody and everything. Their proud and cruel readiness to devour everybody. Uh, the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions and from their mouths proceeded fire and smoke and brimstone. Fire is, is words of anger and hatred and agitation. The words of anger, hatred, agitation. Smoke, again, you may remember f- Ignatius picked up on fire and smoke. The smoke is blinding passion without substance. Passions which blind you, get in your eyes. You can't see anything. You... and you choke. You can't breathe and you can't see. I sat through many fires. It's people die of the smoke rather than of the flames. Blinding without substance. The sulfur, again, full of impurity, or brimstone, full of impurity."And by these three plagues... were slain the third part of men, by the fire and by the smoke and by the brimstone which issued out of their mouths." (sneezes) Hmm. Uh, "by these three plagues", I guess he means the fire and the smoke and the brimstone. Yeah, that's what he must mean. The three plagues are fire and smoke and brimstone. Words, blindness, passion. Angry words, blindness, and passion, impure passion. Uh, a third part of men was killed. Uh, some men hide. A second part of men confess the faith. The third part deny Christ and perish. Perish eternally. So by these plagues of the horsemen and the horses, and you just look at today's world, and you can see that, so to speak. The damned elite and the damned masses of today. Uh, 19, "For the power of the horse is in their mouths and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they hurt." The powers in their mouth is, is their flattering and seductive words. Um, "and in their tails," well, um... the tails cover over dishonorable parts. So these prophets, these, these corrupters disguise their corruption. Today, look at it. Just look at it today. So their seduc- sed- flattering and seductive words, and the disguising of their corruption, the covering over of their corruption. Uh, their tails are like the serpents. Uh, they're like... they're as cun- cunning as Satan. They're as cunning as Satan. Satan, you remember, took the form of a snake. They're as cunning as Satan. "And have heads, and with them they are hurt. And with them they hurt." Uh, he, he says, De Morien says, following doubted medieval commentators, "Having heads means that they, they, the horses, have at their disposal the secular powers." You know, it's certainly absolutely true today. "The horses have at their disposal the secular powers... by which they can do so much harm, by which they hurt." "For the power that was in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents and have heads, and with them they hurt." So there's two different versions for, well... no, it's tails. "The tails are like serpents, and the tails have heads, and by their heads they harm." See, the horses... the enemies of God have at their disposal the secular power, and that's how the enemies of God do so much damage. Verse 20, "And the rest of men who were not slain by these plagues, the rest of mankind that was not persecuted by the Antichrist..."The rest of mankind that was not persecuted by the Re- Antichrist... (pause) so, uh, did not do penance. So, the Antichrist hits directly a certain number of, uh, men. That's why we said, uh, those that are persecuted, some hide, some stand up to the persecution, confess their dai- faith, and undoubtedly get martyred, and then the third part, uh, denies Christ and perishes. But then there's another mass of mankind which is not directly persecuted, which goes with the flow, and they, though they see what's going on, though they may well suspect that it's anti-Christian and against Christ, they don't do penance. It doesn't phase them. They just go with the flow. Undoubtedly, the Antichrist keeps the television sets going, so they just go on watching television. Uh, they did not do penance from their works. They did it so as to stop adoring the devils or images of gold and silver and stone, and bronze and stone and wood, images which can neither see nor hear nor walk. Idols, in other words. They did not do penance from their homicides or from their, uh, from their sorceries, that's right, nor from their fornication nor from their theft. Murder, fornication, theft. Look at it today, Clinton, all three in spades. Sorcery, Mrs. Clinton gets into that. Looks as though he leaves that to her, I presume. She dabbles in all kinds of occult things, as far as I know. I- I... she's interested in that kind of thing, at least interested. Whether she's involved, she certainly wouldn't let yet- she wouldn't yet let people know that she's involved. People are, uh, for the moment, they're still disguising it if they're involved in black magic, but it's more and more coming out into the open. You go into an average bookstore today, and you will often find a section on bl- black magic books, which is terrible, just terrible. 'Cause, you know, ignorant people can pick up these books out of curiosity and start dabbling and start getting involved. God will often set up roadblocks if somebody starts getting involved in black magic or wanting to get involved in black magic. He will set up warnings, and he will set up blocks which you have to jump over. But if people insist, he won't... he will let them. And if you... once you get into black magic, it's very bad news, once you get into it at all deeply. I heard an interesting tape recently by a Father Brian Harrison . Did I tell you about it?... about exorcisms, and he's, he was, he was in Rome by accident, uh, and he, by accident, he got in, he was in touch with Father Gabrieli. I think somebody asked him if he wanted to attend an exorcism, and so that's how it started, an interesting tape. And, uh, Father Gabrieli is, is Rome's sort of full-time exorcist, and he has a kind of sort of hangar out in the suburbs of Rome somewhere, you know, and some, a few heavyset guys, and you know, and, uh, you know, where he can make all the noise and commotion that they like, because of course, an exorcism does involve commotion. And apparently, he performs quite a lot of exorcisms, but I don't know. And Father Harrison was able to watch, and, uh, Father Harrison is a conservative. He's n- he's a smart man. He's Australian. He's a smart man, but he's not honest. Uh, he, he's, he got into a scrap with Michael Davis over religious liberty. Michael Davis was on the right side of the debate about religious liberty, and, uh, Father Harrison more or less admitted that a certain book he had written in order to please the authorities in Rome, in order to get his doctorate, Father Harrison more or less said, is my best recollection, and, uh, but, but the ma- but he, I think he's a convert, and I... it's posi- he may well have the faith. I think he has the faith. In any case, he certainly... not that he didn't believe in the devil before attending these exorcisms, but he certainly believed in the devil after attending these exorcisms, and, uh, he learned a lot. He says he learned a lot. He gave four reasons why people get, get possessed. Does anybody remember that? I think I told you the four. One, they, they positively want to be taken over by the devil. Two, somebody puts a hex on them. That, that's for real. Three, what did I tell you? Three and four. Does anyone remember? I think I talked about it. I can't remember the other two ways they get into it. It'd be interesting to know, interesting to remember. Too bad. Um. (?). Um, maybe. Maybe yes, maybe. I can't remember. Uh, but he certainly believed in the devil after attending these exorcisms. It's very, very clear, so nobody in his right mind will deny the existence of the devil and the existence of many, many, many devils. Any questions on chapter nine? Anything else on chapter nine? Not too easy. All right, we're still under the... we're still in the sixth trumpet, uh, and we are... the whole of chapter 10 and the first part of chapter 11 is still the sixth trumpet. First part of chapter 11 will be the two witnesses.Um, chapter 11, verse three. Thought to be Enoch and Elias. We'll come to that. Urkel? Are the plagues in verse 20- (indistinct chattering). Uh, sulphur smoke and fire, yes. That's what I think it is what they are, yes. It's not the three woes. The three woes are the fifth, sixth and seventh trumpets. So it's the s- sulfur, the fire, uh, smoke and sulfur. Yes, that's what it is. Um, notice today, the incredible, the crusading passion, the crusading passion with which Liberals fight to destroy the rest of Christendom. It's- it's unbelievable. It's- it's a bogus Christianity. It's the- it's an imitation of Christianity, it's Christianity turned against- it's the- it's the fruits of Christianity turned against the roots of Christianity, it's the- it's the manner and mode of Christianity being turned against the substance. It's terrible. But the- the- the crusading righteousness with which these journalists keep getting up and- and politicians, and they- and they get all psyched up and they get everybody else psyched up on these completely bogus and false campaigns. I can give you an example a few- f- two or three years ago, Clinton began screaming all over the media about the, there were a few churches got burned in the south or something, and the media began, immediately whipped up a whole campaign about how the whites were burning the Blacks' churches, and within a few days Clinton was promising eight bi- million federal dollars to pay for these Black churches, and it was all over the newspapers, and the whole thing's completely false. There was no campaign of, they- they, I mean, the FBI went into it and they- they found no campaign, it was just, you know, mouse leaned into, eaten into some wiring somewhere, and there was a church got burned down here, and then the other one, you know, some, um, I don't know, just a few accidents and they made it- made it into a campaign. Gardner? Uh, officially, several cases of the actual arson by the Blacks. Oh, the arson by the Black community, sorry. (laughing) What's known as Jewish lightning. (laughing) Do all of you know what the expression Jewish lightning means? No. Uh, it's... They are past masters at, uh, destroying their own property in order to collect the insurance. If they got a business which is going badly and they're not making money on it, and they want to start over, they set fire to their own, uh, so... I- i- f- w- wh- what- what happened just now, "It was lightning, it was lightning from the sky that hit my business." (laughing) Yeah. So, you know, completely bogus. Completely bogus, uh, fire, uh, arson, yeah, that figures, you know. Yes? And the worst, uh, worst part, looking at it in the paper, is the big front page, uh, you know, huge headlines of hate crime, white- Yeah. ... burning Black churches, and then when the white ministers were caught having committed the arson, back to page four. That's it, that's it. (overlapping dialogue) There you are. There you are. You see, The- The Apocalypse, The Book of the Apocryphals is talking about this, this corruption, these vile words to stir up the smoke so that people can't, just can't see where they are. The agitation and the passion and the confusion. The, uh, people all psyched up and- and- and blinded so they've got no idea what they're doing. They don't know their right hand... People don't know their right hands from their left hands today, they're so dumb. It's very, very grave. And if these days were not shortened, even the elect would not, would, uh, if it were possible, would- would perish, says our Lord. Day- in days like today, and if this situation goes on for too long, it's not the dear little old society that's going to be able to stand up to it, if this situation goes on for too long. The situat- the society's just not built for that. You might just as well ask a lifeboat to stand, stay for months on the open ocean in a raging storm, a lifeboat can't do it. It's wonderful what the society has done, and it'll, it will serve the g- function that God wants it to serve. How much longer? You don't know, I don't know. But it can't, it can't replace the church and it can't survive, I don't know how much longer you... Well, it's surviving now. Don't take me to be saying that it's threatened and cracking and breaking up and we'll soon all be, we'll soon all be swimming, so put on- (laughing) ... put on your life jackets, because I don't think it's, I don't think we'll need the life jackets today or tomorrow. The society's got more endurance in it than that. But it hasn't got, of its nature, there's no proportion between, humanly speaking, there's no proportion between the strength of society and the strength of this storm. The strength of the storm is still building. I don't think you can say that the strength of society is building. It, well, it is in a way. It is in a way, insofar as every day the p- the priests of the- of this society are getting one day older. That's quite a lot of quite young priests approaching... They're no longer in their 20s and some of them in their 30s. Quite a lot are now in their 40s. And so they're approaching the strength of their- their best priestly years, in a sense. Many of them are now moving into their best priestly years. That's they have the best combination of strength and wisdom. So, you know, when they're, uh, they've still got some strength of youths, but they're getting a bit of the wisdom of- of age. Of course, the real wisdom of age only comes somewhat later, you know? (laughing) Sort of, um, mid-50s, you know? (laughing) Uh, that's, you know, when you, you know, you really start to understand what it's all about, and you know.You can't expect youngsters to believe that. They think they know it all. So, you know, that's okay, that's okay. (laughs) D- d- d- don't worry about it, you know, so don't ... Um, any other questions on chapter nine? All right, we move onto chapter 10. We're still in the sixth trumpet, I was gonna say. Uh, and it's the chapter 10 is the... against the Antichrist himself. The chapter nine was the struggle against the heresy's preceding the Antichrist, and that was the locusts and these horses and their horsemen. A vision in chapter nine of the build up towards the Antichrist, the state of mankind with whom the preachers have got to deal in the build up to the Antichrist. 10 and 11 is the Antichrist himself, 10 and the first half of 11 is the Antichrist himself. 10, a renewal of the Gospel, 11, the return of the two witnesses, the two witnesses. Both are means of combating the Antichrist himself. A renewal of the Gospel and the two witnesses, chapter 11. The seventh trumpet at the end of chapter 11 will be the final preachers just before the general judgment. So now we are in full under the Antichrist. "Uh, and I saw another mighty angel..." First, chapter 10, "come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud and a rainbow was on his head, and his face was as the sun and his feet as pillars of fire, and he had in his hand a little book open and he set his right foot upon the sea and his left foot upon the earth, and he cried with a loud voice as when a lion roareth, and when he had cried seven thunders uttered their voices. And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write and I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, 'Seal up the things which the seven thunders have spoken and write them not.'" Hm. Verse, chapter 10 verse one, "I saw another angel..." This another angel is Christ. Strong coming down from heaven. I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, strong to endure his passion. Come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud. Clothed with a cloud is the flesh of Christ. His flesh, his human nature, his flesh, which is almost immaterial, which is quasi-immaterial. Of course the flesh is material, the flesh of Christ was material, but it- it's so, uh, under the power of the soul that it's- it's a, it's the most spiritualized m- matter that there ever was, the flesh of our Lord. So it's quasi-immaterial. That's like a cloud. A cloud is quasi-immaterial. Unworldly. All the reasons why Christ's flesh was like a cloud. It's quasi-immaterial. It's unworldly. It's above this earth. It shields men from the sun of God's anger, and it is laden with a rain of graces, R-A-I-N. It is laden, this cloud of the flesh of our Lord is laden with a rain th- a rain, a downpour, a rainfall of graces. Isaiah 19 verse one. And there was a, a rainbow around his head. A rainbow was on his head and his face was as the sun and his feet as pillars of fire. The rainbow around his head is peace with God. That's what the rainbow signified, you may remember, from the time of Noah. God said from this time on then this, the rainbow is the pledge that I will not again flood mankind. So the rainbow is a sign of peace between man and God. The rainbow around this angel's head is the peace with God, not the peace of God, but peace with God filling the thoughts of Christ. (clears throat) Peace with God filling the thoughts of Christ. The sun, S-U-N, is the splendor of Christ's divinity, the splendor of Christ's godhood. And his feet were like columns of fire. What are, who are his feet? What are his feet? Vera? Preachers. Yes, the preachers. Blessed are the feet of...Those who announce the gospel, um, th- the feet are the preachers of Christ carrying his gospel to all the world. The feet are the preachers of Christ carrying his gospel to all the world. Isaiah 52:7, "These, these feet are columns of fire, columns of firmness and endurance in taking the weight." Uprightness presumably also. Uprightness, firmness, endurance in taking weight, W-E-I-G-H-T. Columns of fire, columns of... The column of fire which led the Israelites in the desert, the Shekhinah, I think it was called. The column of fire, the pillar of fire, so they're columns of fire. The fire is the charity... Here it's not passion, o- obviously passion and confusion. Here, it's, uh, the fire of charity which enlightens men's minds. The fire of charity which enlightens men's minds. How can charity enlighten a mind? Because charity is in the will, and the will follows the intellect. Therefore, how can charity enlighten the mind?... (Latin) Causes cause one another. Causes are causes to one another, (Latin). So the intellect and will cause one another, sed aliter et aliter, but in two different ways. Sed aliter et aliter. In one way and in another way. The intellect informs the will, but it's the will that moves or ap- applies the intellect. (Latin). He did not want to... He did not want to understand. He didn't want to know and therefore he blinded himself, he made himself not know. He wanted to know or he wanted not to know. That's the- the will moving the intellect. So if the, if the will is full of charity then it moves the intellect in the right direction. The direction in which the intellect looks is determined by the will. What the intellect sees when it looks is determined by the intellect. It's the intellect that picks up what's out there, but it's the will that makes the intellect move in this direction or in that direction. So, uh, charity will make the intellect m- look in the direction of the truth, and will make the intellect pick up the truth by moving it in the right direction.