Peter, one Peter, um, we nearly finished the preliminaries. The date, well it was certainly written before Peter died. So that's before '64 or '67. That's about the level of which most of these... That's one of the most serious of these considerations it seems to me. I don't wish, don't wish to make too much fun of them. But it's very interesting that God should have left the, these sort of details in so much obscurity. I mean he, the Lord God could easily have found ways of filling us in on a lot more detail of the early church. He could easily have left some historian, but he's, it's, it's only scattered hints. I wonder why. I don't know why, but, um, that's how God chose to do it. Maybe so that we should concentrate on essentials and not get lost precisely in these sort of, uh, es- uh, essentially accidental details. Anyway, uh, before '64 or '67, and then after '62 because of certain reminiscences of Pauline epistles. Romans, Ephesians, perhaps Hebrews. Hebrews was written about '62. '62 is the date of Luke's, Luke's gospel also, about then. So certain Paul, Paul, reminiscences from letters of St. Paul which suggests that Paul wrote first. But again, it's not, absolutely not conclusive. Paul might have got it from Peter's preaching. It's not, doesn't seem likely. Or there were ideas that w- that all the apostles were putting in circulation, and they just picked up the same ideas. In any case, it may be that Peter was picking it up from St. Paul. Paul was certainly more of an intellectual in theories, a pupil of Gamaliel in theory he cert-... He'd certainly done more, uh, book studies than the fishermen of Galilee obviously. On the other hand, their inspiration was equal. Does he claim in beginning about Galatians that he got it from God and Revelation and not ? Uh, yes, but anybody? Gratia aedificat. Yes, somebody say? Ah, super natura, who was it? Well done, yes, yes. Yes. Yes. (laughs) Ah, you're awake. (laughs) You're ready. Oh, it's getting May, you know, it's true. It's, you know, lunchtime and May time, it's a bit much. You know, it's true. He's absolutely right. Grace builds on nature, therefore it's true that St. Paul says, "I got it all from God." On the other hand, what he did get from God, it promptly meshed in with everything he'd learned from Gamaliel. What he learned from Gamaliel was natura, but then what he in front was k- k- gratia aedificat super naturam. The Lord God grabbed hold of everything that Gamaliel had put in to, put in to Paul, and just, uh, vroom, vroom, vroom. Uh, everything Gamaliel, vroom, vroom, revved the throttle and then, then the... Gamaliel was, was supercharged after the Holy Ghost had finished with St. Paul. So grace builds on nature. All right, so, um, and therefore when grace, the same grace at Pentecost landed on Peter, you know, I'm sure in Peter's preaching he had, you know, divinely inspired comparisons with the various fish in the Sea of Galilee. You know, there's this kind of fish and that kind of fish, and there's this kind of faithful and that kind of faithful. I'm s- some of it must, will have been inspired, uh, but what I'm saying is, uh... That sounds, you know, as I'm making fun of the great, the princes of the apostles. I'm not, uh... Heaven forbid. But what I'm saying is that, uh, everything that was natural in Peter will have been grabbed hold of by sanctifying grace and used. And everything natural, everything previously there in Paul would have been grabbed hold of by some, uh... The same with Cardinal Newman. Cardinal Newman was, um, a learned man in scripture and all kinds of things when, when he converted. The, his, you know, that, the Holy Ghost made use of everything he had, and the Hol- Holy Ghost undoubtedly chose Cardinal Newman precisely because he was for, for those purposes, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So, um, the same grace, in other words, in scholasticism it's a five word, five word, uh, saying. And it's not ad resurgitio in partem because that's only three words. (laughs) And it's, it's not original sin because that's only two words. So five words, somebody. Quae quid... Recipitur. ... recipitur, modo recipiens recipitur. Whatever is received is received in the manner of the receiver. All 12 apostles receive the same Holy Ghost, but what the Holy Ghost then works in 12 different souls depends upon what those 12 souls already have. So, um, quae quid recipitur, modo recipiens recipitur is a very profound saying. Uh, again, really it's a version of quae quid recipitur, modo recipiens recipitur. It's a version of... Go on, you're quite likely to be right. Ad resurgitio in partem. (laughs) Ad resurgitio in se. He's got it right. He's in form . Uh, yes, because whatever is received is received in the manner of the receiver is, is a vers- is a, is a variation upon how I am going to react depends upon what I am. What, what I will receive and react to depends upon what I'm capable of receiving. What I'm capable of receiving depends upon what I am, therefore how I'm going to react depends upon what I am, that how I act depends upon what I am. It's the same saying basically.The same, if you take those scholastic actions, you know, take 50 of them and you can, you kind of, you can work them down. The trouble is when you work them down, you, when you, you don't see all that there is. If you work them down to a few very simple ones (clicks tongue) ... and if you work, if you take the few most simple and most basic, you can't see all that there is in it. For instance, (Latin). It's, it's abs- there's, there's volumes in (Latin). It's the whole concept of nature and of a thing acting in accordance with its nature. Its nature being fixed and, uh, action necessary proceeding in according with- in accordance with the nature of what is acting. (Latin). Every agent acts according as it is an act, uh, and so on, so... (Latin). Every agent acts through its form, so all (Latin) kind of, so, so... Uh, why (Latin)? The primacy of being. Modern world, primacy of doing. Goethe's Faust, "In the beginning was the word." Hmm. Is there a Goethe's Faust in English, uh, in the library? Jenkins? (clears throat) Is the library open? Yes. It is open. Jenkins, off you go. Goethe's Faust in English. Um, "In the beginning was the..." Have, have any of you looked at th- this famous speech from Goethe's Faust? "In the beginning was the word." Hmm, not so sure about that. "In the beginning was..." Hmm. "In the beginning was..." "In the beginning was activity." Yeah. "In the beginning was action." Yeah. That's Goethe. That's the modern world. Uh, we'll have a look at it in a moment, if I can find it. Um, I thought Father U, Father (German name) was interested in... Did you not hear the, the- Yeah, we (quiet conversation) Yes, there we are. So that's, well, that's a ways back, only a few have read it, but, um, yes. I thought he, I thought he was (quiet conversation) at one stage. Um, then after 62, before 64 or 67, so that leaves us a window of two or five years. Confirmations, let's say things that tend to confirm the window of 62 to 67. One, Paul is no longer in Rome. His first captivity has come to an end, we think. He's, he's very possibly in Spain. It's his last missionary journey, which we do not know of in the Pauline Epistles except perhaps flashes... No, there are flashes. The, the Epistles of the Captivity flash forward, and then the 2 Timothy flashes perhaps a bit backwards upon this last missionary journey of Paul. Secondly, so Paul is no longer in Rome, um, and that's why... Hold on. Um... (clears throat) Yes, that's why there's, there's no reference to Paul in 1 Peter, although Peter is writing to churches founded by Paul. So there's no mention of Paul. Paul is out of the picture for the moment. Um, on the other hand, second, secondly, Mark is in Rome. Mark is in Rome. Thank you. Thank you. Mark is in Rome. 1 Peter 5:13. 1 Peter 5:13. Philemon 24. Colossians 4:10. "Aristarchus, my fellow prisoners salute you, and Mark, the cousin German of Barnabas, touching whom you have received (quiet conversation), if he come unto you, receive him. If he come unto you Colossians..." "If Mark come unto you, Colossians..." So Mark is still in Rome. He's not yet in Asia, Colossians 4:10. So 1 Peter 5, Mark does seem to be in Rome, which corresponds to Colossians 4:10 that Paul foresees Mark, foresees Mark making a journey to Asia. So it looks as though Mark is still in Rome, which corresponds to that window. Thirdly, from 1 Peter, the Christians are suffering. (clicks tongue) (makes sound of shushing) I don't know Faust very well. I don't know Faust. I think it's... Um... (makes sound of blowing on fingers) I'll have to look for it. I will look, I'll look for it right now. Um, Christians are suffering from the epistle, but not yet in blood. Uh, (Latin). "You've not yet resisted under blood," says Saint Paul to the Hebrews in Jerusalem. And the Asian Christians that Peter is writing to have not yet been persecuted in blood. Now, when would they be persecuted in blood? Anybody? Darby? 67? Uh, earlier surely. Surely earlier. The first persecution of Nero, 64, isn't it? I, I... Maybe, maybe that's... I, I'm not... I can't pretend to know for certain. I think 64. Maybe that's, um, another... Maybe the, the... I don't know my early history of the church. Does anybody... Is, is the, is the date of the first persecution era swing? I think so. I'm not, they're not sure whether it (quiet conversation) at the beginning (quiet conversation)Okay, so the persecution ran from '64 to '67? That could easily be. So, but it- if it began in '64, that's why the commentator here would say '64, um, they're not yet suffering in blood as in- in, uh, as they soon will be. So again, it puts a date of '62, '63 kind of on- on the epistle. So Christians are not yet suffering. There's- there's- there's no mention yet of a bloody suffering. In- in- on the contrary, what mention is there of the authorities in Peter, One Peter? Anybody? Does anybody know what mention there is? Respect the authorities, uh, which of course he would say that at any time, but it might not be a very psychological thing to say when the- when you're, you know, people are being killed by the authorities. Uh, what would you say when people are being killed by the authorities? (Inaudible). Yeah. Hang in there. Uh, yes. You might not say respect them because their authority comes from God, because it's not the moment to say that when they are obviously executing the servants of God. It's- it's not that it isn't true, but that it's not the moment to say it. Uh, so in other words, Peter might be writing differently in '64 after a bloody persecution had started, which again suggests a date of, let's say, '63. Fourthly, from One Peter, the Christians are neophytes, N-E-O-P-H-Y-T-E-S. The Christians are neophytes, let's say new converts. The church... this is a difficult point. Uh, you can't say the church is not yet structured, but the church is, um, the hierarchy is in an early state, let's say. The church's hierarchy, the- the structure of the church is in an early state. The communities are being governed by presbyters, which suggests that the higher authority is still being represented by the apostles. So the... of course, the question of presbyters and e- episcops, uh, episkopoi and presbuteroi, the two words in- in Paul's epistles are used it seems interchangeably, as I re- as I recall. The- the clear distinction of presbytero and episkopo is not yet... the- the- the reality is there, it's in the gospel, the apostles and the disciples. The apostles will be bishops, the disciples will be priests, the ad- and Peter will be the pope. Already in the gospel you've got pope, you've got the reality of pope, bishops, priests, laity. The reality is there in the gospel. The names are not yet there. In Paul's epistles, the reality is emerging, (clears throat) excuse me, but still the names are not there. Similarly here in, um, uh, in Peter (clears throat), the- the- the reality is there, but the names are not yet there. So, uh, that again suggests an- an earlier rather than later year for the epis- epistle. And then, uh, the Christians are still, uh, think the end of the world is close. So that's an early- earlier rather than a later state, stage. (Clears throat) So those are minor confirmations that, (clears throat) excuse me, we are at an early- early day. Remember, it's not even yet 30 years, it's barely 30 years since our Lord was crucified, so we're very close to the, as the- uh, as the expression goes, some people say, use the expression, "The Golgotha's still steaming." Let's say the- the- the blood is still warm on Golgotha in a manner of speaking, obviously. In other words, we're very close still to the crucifixion. Imagine- imagine living at a time when the crucifixion has only taken place 30 years ago. Well, this is it. This is that, One- One Peter. All right, place, Rome. The wri- the epistle was written in Rome, 5:13, Babylon. It was then a classic comparison, Babylon and Rome. Firstly, it was a classic comparison. One, two, three. Firstly, it was a classic comparison because of the idolatry of Babylon and Rome, the immorality of Babylon and- and of Rome, the crushingness of Babylon and Rome. Both bombed the heck out of any country they just didn't like the shape of the nose of. Crushing this. "Tu regere imperio populos Romane, memento: partire subiectis et debellare superbos." Quotation, you've had that one from me before certainly, Stephen McDonald. "Tu regere imperio populos Romane, memento: partire subiectis et debellare superbos." "Thou, oh Roman, remember to rule by thy empire. Spare those who have been conquered and bring down by war the proud." "Et debellare superbos." One. Eney Book 6, well done. Yes, that's it, yes. Um...Who is it? I forget who's speaking to who. Uh, somebody's speaking to Aeneas- Aeneas undoubtedly. Sorry? Anchises. Anchises, could easily be. That's Aeneas' dad. Uh, it's the most famous book of the Aeneid when Aenead- Aeneas is visiting the underworld and he sees, um, he sees Marcellus, "Tu Marcellus eris". Marcellus was like the crown prince, if I remember rightly, of Augustus. And Virgil was writing for Augustus, and so Virgil imagines Aeneas, um... Tu-tu-tu-tu-tu-tu-tu. One of the shades makes this prophecy about who's going to be a famous successor or famous emperor, but then Marcellus died and so the prophecy didn't come true. "Tu Marcellus eris." But it applies to Archbishop Lefebvre. "Tu Marcellus eris." Uh, Babylon. It's a classic comparison for the idolatry, immorality, and the crushing-ness. Babylon was crushing and Rome was crushing. What book of scripture, the crushing-ness of Rome? Anybody? Daniel, Prophet Daniel. The vision of the four empires, the empire of gold, of silver, of bronze, and of iron, and the iron will crush everything in its way. That's Rome. Secondly, all ancient writers take Babylon, quote unquote, to mean Rome. The first to disagree was Erasmus, who was, uh, in the f- late 1400s. St. Ignatius noted that every time he tried to read Erasmus, he came away less fervent and less pious than before, therefore he gave up reading Erasmus. He operated a discernment of spirits and he gave up reading Erasmus. (laughs). Thirdly, Peter is never known to have been anywhere near the literal Babylon in Mesopotamia. Nothing in any source or history indicates that Peter was ever anywhere near the literal Babylon. So everything indicates that the Babylon of verse 5, chapter 5, verse 13 is, uh, Rome. (paper rustles) The content, content, content. Five parts prologue, one exaltation of holiness, two, special duties of Christians, three, instructions on behavior within Christian communities. And f- and fl- finally, an epilogue. Closing remarks. It's not really a plan, an epistle. You can't really speak of a plan. Um, one, 1 to 12, 1 to 13, 1:13, 2:10, 2:11, 4:06, 3:07, 8:39, 9:12, 14:14. 9:12 to 14:14. But St. Peter is not writing the Summa, so it's not organized and you can't pretend that it is organized like the Summa anymore than many another book of scripture.Prologue. (clears throat) We come now to the text itself. "Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers and dispersers through Pontus, Galatia, (coughs) Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect." Uh, to th- this... chosen out. The foreigners scattered through all of those chosen out. (clears throat) According to... chosen out, "According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, unto the sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience to the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied." (coughs) Verse two is clearly Trinitarian. You've got the Father and the Holy Ghost and the Son. Again, the words aren't there but the reality is there. "According to the foreknowledge," God the Father foreknows election, which is virtually or potentially salvation. The foreknowledge of the Father is the efficient cause of sanctifica- uh, election. The Holy Ghost is the formal cause of election sanctification. Election which is tantamount to sanctification. And the, the Son is meritorious cause, "obedience to the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ." So you've got the Father and the Holy Ghost and the Son. Efficient cause, formal cause, and meritorious cause. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. (foreign language) shalom. Uh, verse three. It's, this, this introduction is dense. It's like, a little like... it reminds me of some Paul, nearest comparison. Certain parts of the epistle are very dense. This is one of them. "Blessed be the God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to His great mercy hath regenerated us unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead." We hope because Christ rose from the dead. He has regenerated us for what we hope for. He has regenerated us for that which the resurrection makes us hope for. "An inheritance incorruptible and undefiled and that cannot fade, reserved in heaven for you." Obviously, that's salvation in heaven. And i- or heri- uh, or inhe- inheritance in heaven. Very Pauline language. The inheritance, heritage. A heritage of hope. Paul, St. Paul. "That cannot fade, reserved in heaven for you, who, by the power of God are kept by faith. You, who, by the power of God, are kept by faith under salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time." (clears throat) By the power of God, so it's God's doing that Christians are Christian and persevere. "Are kept by faith unto salvation." Faith is the beginning and salvation is the end. If the faith ever fails, the salvation is sure to fail. You're kept by faith. Faith is in- the indispensable foundation. Salvation is the final purpose and terminus. (foreign language) "Salvation ready to be revealed in the last time." Gain that perspective that Christ has li- come towards the end of the world, and He has revealed what w- lay hidden from the beginning of the world. And by the power of God you are being kept by faith for that, for that salvation. "Blessed be God for saving you up for an imperishable heritage in heaven... wherein you shall greatly rejoice," verse 6, "If now you must for a little time be made sorrowful in diverse temptations." Diverse is usually today spelled with an E. There it's spelled without. It's got nothing to do with deep sea diving. (laughs) "You shall greatly rejoice if now you must for a little time be made... if now you must be for a little time made sorrowful in diverse temptations." If you make it to heaven, if you make it to salvation, you're going to be enormously happy, even if now you have to go through difficulties. You will be... thanks be to God for saving, for r- keeping you all for a magnificent salvation in heaven.... which will enormously rejoice you even if here and now you have to go through some trials. "That the trial of your faith, much more precious than gold which is tried by the fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the appearing of Jesus Christ." Um, (clears throat) you're being tried so that, uh, you may be found faithful for the praise and... If, you... Ye- that the trial of your faith may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Um, that's hino. Hino or hoppo. Um, I'm up to around verse six. Oh, no. (papers rustling) Six. Yes. It's in order then. Um, in order that the trial of your faith, uh, your faith is being tried and, and is, is in brackets a swift comparison. Like gold, which is obviously very precious, is tried, is, is cleansed by a fierce fire. You purify gold by heating it and burning away all the alloys, all the impurities. Your faith, which is, is much more precious than gold, is going to be, you know, if, if... I mean, it's a very swift idea, but it's obviously that faith... If gold is tried by fire, then faith has to be tried by... Gold is precious, it's tried by a fierce fire. Faith is much more precious, precious. It's normal that it should be tried by a rather f- fierce persecution. Don't be surprised if faith, which is much more precious than gold, should be tried by pretty fierce kind of persecutions. So that the trial of your faith may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Uh, when Jesus Christ appears, the general judgment/particular judgment, uh, sub-station particular judgment, uh, then i- if you're, i- i- after, if, if trials have shown you to be faithful, it will give praise and glory and honor to God and also to yourselves. There will be praise and glory and honor for you, for God firstly because it's His doing, it's by His grace, but also for you because you will have cooperated with His grace at the appearing of Jesus Christ. So, uh, in this imperishable heritage, you will glory even if you have to be tested for it now. So obviously, the whole context of this epistle is that the Christians are having a hard time. As suggested, not unto blood, as Saint Paul says. You have not yet resisted unto blood. Saint Paul to the Hebrews, Hebrews 13, "You have not yet resisted unto blood." 13, I think. Um, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm, mm. I'm not sure. Certainly Hebrews, "You have not yet resisted unto blood." I'm not sure where. Doesn't matter. Uh, then, uh, "Whom not have..." Verses 8 and 9. S- a, a "Salvation which, whom having not yet seen you love, in whom also now though you see and not you believe. And believing shall rejoice with joy unspeakable and glorified, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls." So, um, thus you will enormously rejoice. If you make it to heaven, you will enormously rejoice even if you need to be put to the trial now for your, for God's glory and for your own glory when Jesus Christ appears. When He appears, everyone will see Him who they do not see now. You do not see Him now. You are living by faith. You do not see Him now, verse 8, you l- but you love Him. In, uh, in whom also you, though you'd see Him not, you believe. You don't see Him but you believe in Him. And since you believe in Him and you've got your feet on the road to heaven, if you hang in there and make it, you will rejoice with a joy unspeakable and glorified. Notice how he's, he's concentrating absolutely on the one thing that matters, which is salvation. It's the only thing that matters. He's zeroing right in on salvation. Salvation is what Jesus Christ was about, salvation is what the Christian life is about, salvation is what trials and temptations are about. And it depends upon faith. It's, it's grounded in faith.If you make it, you will be unbelievably re- uh, jo- uh, en- joyful. If you receive the end of your faith, the purpose of your faith, what... that what you bel- believe in order to obtain, the salvation of your souls, verse 9. So salvation is what it's all about. Thank God for putting you on the path to salvation even though... and giving you many gifts for that, even if you're now suffering because, uh, you may now suffer, but you're going to rejoice enormously if you make it. That's talking- that's saying absolutely the essentials, let's face it. "Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched." So now, uh, Saint Paul- Saint Peter is hooking back to the Old Testament prophets. Uh, vers- verses, uh, 10 to 12. It's a salvation which the Old Testament prophets foresaw. Uh, "Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, who prophesied of the grace to come in you." What di- what saying did that... of our Lord does that remind you of? And does it remind anyone of? The saying of our Lord? Ferdy? Shirat? Abraham wished to see the- Yes, yes. Abraham wished to see and, and rejoiced, uh, and rejoiced when he saw it. Yes. He was given a vision of it. He saw it. He saw it and was glad. There we are. That's it. He saw it and was glad. Um, another quotation. Simeon? Uh, Simeon I don't see, but the other one I'm thinking of is? Lester? When he was ?　about as Jesus ?　traveled ?　with his feet ?　in the open ?　the prophets ?　had not yet seen ?　the glory of the coming Messiah ?　but had seen the glory of Jesus ?　who had been sent by God. Yes, yes. And when he was ?　going to the Mount of Olives he saw them go out and he prophesied all these things which he had seen before. There you are. The prophets longed to see the things that you're now seeing, the s- uh, Chorazin, uh, Chorazin and Bethsaida. You're seeing the things that, that, that they, they would have given their back teeth to see. And, and here you are turning your back on it, right? That was it. So, "The sal- the prophets have inquired and diligently searched." They, they, they gave themselves all... They longed to see what you... has been revealed to you, to you ordinary guys, Gentiles. You've s- you've, you've been given it. All these hoity-toity Jews, they dreamt of seeing what's being handed over to you jerks. It's, it's it. It's what it's all about. Yeah. So you're in good company. Uh, "Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, who prophesied of the grace to come in you." You, you lot, you're the realization of these ancient and glorious prophecies, of these glorious ancient and pres- prestigious prophecies. It's an extraordinary thought. It's true, of course. And they, they, the prophets searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ in them did signify. The Spirit of Christ is, of course, the Holy Ghost, and that suggests that he proceeds fr- uh, that the Holy Ghost proceeds from Christ when he says the Spirit of Christ, it suggests that the third person proceeds from the second, which of course the Latin Church teaches by the Filioque. "Searching what or what manner of time the Chris- Spirit of Christ in them did signify when it foretold," the Spirit foretold, "those sufferings that are in Christ and the glories that should follow." So, uh, where did the Spirit foretell the sufferings of Christ, the sufferings that are in Christ? Lester? Where did the Spirit of Christ through the prophets inquiringing- inquiring and diligently searching? Yes, certainly. For instance, can you na- number one? 21. Um, which is 21? How does it start? In Deus... in (Latin) Is it... No, that's not how it starts. Deus, Deus, Deus, Deus meus (Latin) the words of our Lord on the cross. Why hast thou abandoned me? Prophecies of the Passion. Also, of course, outstandingly, the most outstanding prophecy of the Passion, the whole of it, the Old Testament- Isaiah. Isaiah Chapter 53. End of 52 and 53, Isaiah 53, the suffering servant. Isaiah 53. So that's a classic. There are many other examples. The, uh, prophecies of the Passion are scattered through all of the Old Testament, the very end Christ and the glories that should follow. So the, the Old Testament prophets were searching and pondering and wondering and, and glimpsing and, and exulting and longing. And, and with you, that's what's ha- this is what's happened. Amongst you and amongst us, it's happened. You are the realization, you are the reality of these ancient, ancient and glorious prophecies. "To who is revealed that not, not to themselves but to you they ministered those things which are now declared to you by them that have preached the gospel to you, the Holy Ghost being sent down from heaven, on whom the angels desire to look." So again, it's very dense, but to whom it was revealed through the prophets, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched, to whom it was revealed that to the Old Testament prophets it was revealed that it wouldn't be to them... it wasn't for themselves that they were writing down these prophecies and working and serving, but it was for you that they were working and writing and serving because the ultimate purpose of everything that they were doing was the Church of Jesus Christ.... and now you are members of that church. And so all of those prophets were working for the church and they were working for you. You are the realization of the church, that these prophets were glimpsing and dreaming of and longing for. "To you, they ministered those things which are now declared to you." And these things, the fullness of revelation, has come through the Catholic apostles who are now preaching to Peter's readers. In other words, the, the, the preachers of the gospel, the Paul, Barnabas, Mark, uh, Clemens, the various apostles of the very early... through these apostles, it wa- it was revealed to the Old Testament prophets that they were working not for themselves, that they would not see, but you would see. They were working for you... on all of that which has now been revealed to you. On a... They, they were work... they were, uh, half-seeing and longing for those mysteries which have now been openly revealed to all of you. Where is this in St. Paul? Where is this clear in St. Paul, the same idea? Anybody remember? In length and breadth? Webber? No. No. What does that mean? Shh. Yes, siree, Bob. Where is the 747 in St. Paul? Ephesians. Ephesians chapter... chapter one, the beginning of one. Yes, that tremendous... The coming... The 747 coming in to land. Anyone remember? All right. Uh, St. Paul there, too, speaks of the, w- w- um, what was revealed to the epi- what was revealed to the prophets. Uh, what... Where is it? Um, I should reveal it. "That he might make known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in him in the dispensation of the fullness of..." Hmm, it's not clearly... it's not clear there. No, it... it's implicit. I'm sorry. It's implicit there, but I don't think it's clear. No, in the beginning of Hebrews, the very first verse of Hebrews, it's definitely there. Um, I, I think I made a mistake about... It's not really... That idea is not really... Um, the idea that it's... It's somewhere in Ephe- in Ephesians. I'm sure of that. That the prophets... Interesting. I'm sorry. I should know this. In Hebrews 1, it's very clear, "God who at sundry times and in diverse manners spoke in times past to the fathers by the prophets, last of all, in these days has spoken to us by his Son." And the Son is the fullness and full clarity and full power of revelation, which was only, uh, masked and at half power, so to speak, in the prophets. That idea is there. All right, turn back to One Peter. Um, the Old Testament prophets were working for the mysteries which the preachers of the gospel have now revealed to you fully. Uh, "Are now revealed to you by them that have preached the gospel to you, the Holy Ghost being sent down from heaven on whom the angels desire to look." Again, the construction there is a little strange. How does the Holy Ghost get stuck on there? It's not clear in English. It'll be more clear in Latin or in... Oh, it's an ablative absolute in, in Latin. The S- the Holy Ghost having been sent down from heaven, it's an ablative absolute. Um, um, in the Holy Ghost. Oh, it is so dense. It's so, uh, so packed together. In any case, the idea is that, um, uh, you are now receiving the fullness of this revelation of these mysteries which were destined from all time to be the purpose of the whole of the Old Testament and the whole of those prophets. And now you see it. It's, it's been preached to you, and it's revealed to you, the Holy Ghost having been sent down from heaven on whom the angels desire to look. The, the Holy Ghost having been sent down from heaven. The Holy Ghost is sent by the Father and the Son, and he's sent to inspire, again, with the truth, with the, with the fullness of revelation, the Holy Ghost has come down to give the fullness of revelation. The angels' desire to look upon the Holy Ghost. So you are being given the view, the full view, of that which the angels themselves desire to see. You are being, through the Old Testament prophets at half power, through the apostles at full power, you are being given the, the revelation of the complete messages of God for time and history and for heaven by the Holy Ghost who even the angels don't fully see. So what's Peter emphasizing? Peter is emphasizing... He's, he's saying, you know... J.D.P. always used to say, "No biggie." Peter is saying, "Biggie!" So, uh, uh, what... Y- your Catholic life, your Catholic Church is a biggie. Your Catholic life is a biggie. The state of grace is a biggie. The redemption by our Lord Jesus Christ, you can't get m- more biggie-biggie than that. (laughs) Humanum dico. I speak foolishly, of course. Uh, you know? But... (clears throat)