Firstly, the spiritual conference tonight will be by Bishop Foley, and Tuesday night, and Thursday night. Secondly, who can tell me what this is? "You are our letter of recommendation. The New Testament being written as it should be, not on mosaic tablets of stone, but on your hearts, for it is a testament of the spirit and of life, incompara- incomparably more glorious even than the Old Testament blazing in glory, which made Moses veil his face. Alas, that Old Testament is still veiled from the Jews, but Catholics worship God in spirit, in liberty, and in true glory." Who knows where we are? All right, keep your mouth shut, Jenkins. (laughs) Uh... "Therefore, we Catholics- we Catholic priests preach with courage out in the open, hidden only from disbelievers, Jesus Christ, for your sakes, light of God's glory. However, we priests remain fragile creatures, vulnerable to all kinds of suffering unto death, s- so that you should have life, but we are confident that Jesus will give life to ourselves also, an enormous reward in heaven for our little troubles now." (laughs) "For we know that heaven is our destination, our desire, so long as we die in the state of grace, and God gives us confidence that we will go to Him, so we do our best for Him because we will all be judged on the good or bad we have done." Who else knows where we are now? Anybody else now? "God sees our hearts. We hope you do too, because all we do is for your sakes, to bring you to Christ who died for us all, reconciling us with God as we priests tell. Do listen and do seize the moment of grace which is now, for we priests are poor creatures, downtrodden by the world, but the power of God is within us. Your problem is not ourselves, but yourselves." (laughs) "Do realize as Catholics, you cannot mix with the world which is radically opposed to Christ. Leave the world behind you and then God will come to you." "So leave behind impurity and recognize that we are your true friends. What joy it was for us to meet Titus bringing good news..." Ding ding, "of your love of me. I am so happy that my letter made you sorry with a true and fruitful sorry, with a true and fruitful sorrow. You made Titus see that I was right to trust you. How we rejoice." Anybody know where that is? Anybody else know where that is? Portugal? Uh, Hebrews 8. No, no, no, it's not Hebrews. It's 2 Corinthians. It's, um, there are five difficult chapters, three, four, five, six, and seven of 2 Corinthians. It's- it's a very, um... it's difficult to sort out. It's difficult to make a plan of, but, um, St. Thomas says that it's, 2 Corinthians is about the priesthood. I haven't got the summary here. Uh, the 1 Corinthians is about the Eucharist, marriage, and baptism, baptism, Eucharist, marriage. And 2 Corinthians is about the priesthood, the sacraments of the New Testament. And St. Paul is having to defend himself, is having to defend himself against the Corinthians who are accusing him of all kinds of things. But he, in these chapters, he... oof, it's very dense. Uh, one, the ideas just come tumbling out one after another. And, um, but I suppose the line is, the line is there. "You Corinthians are our letter of recommendation." That immediately makes him think which prophet is in the Old Testament that talks about the New Testament being written on hearts of flesh and no longer on tablets of stone? Does anybody know? Which Old Testament prophet? Holden? Mosiah. No. Ezekiel? No. Keep going and you'll get it. (laughs) Yeah. Jeremiah, you're right. Yes, it's Jeremiah. Jeremiah 31. Look at that because it's an important passage. Uh, Jeremiah, it's very important. It's, it's another of those prophets about the Catholic Church. I'm surprised we didn't mention. I think I skidded over it in connection with the Messiah. Uh, Jeremiah 31 verse thirty- uh, verse 31, "Behold the days will come, says the Lord, 'and I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt." Sinai, the Old Testament, obviously. "The covenant which they made void and I had dominion over them,' says the Lord. "'But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,' says the Lord. 'I will give my law in their bowels and I will write it in their hearts and I will be their God and they shall be my people.'" There are no tablets of stone in the- in the New Testament. It's- it's a testament of grace inscribed on hearts. Uh, "And they shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother saying, 'Know the Lord,' for all shall know me from the least of them even to the greatest," says the Lord. "For I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more." In other words, you're not going to have instruction like the rabbis instructed or like the... you're not going to have to instruct... the kids, the children, and the adults are not going to have to learn all of the Pentateuch or learn all of the 613 rabbinical precepts or whatever it is. Uh, true, Catholics will need to know their catechism. But this, the ca- learning the catechism is going to be nothing like as exteriorly burdensome as it is for a Jew to have to learn everything that- that there used to be in the Jewish religion and still perhaps to this day for all I know.It's going to be quite a simple affair and the child of five in the new covenant is going to be able to be full of grace and to know all about God without, uh, having had to learn a great deal. Of course, he should proportionately with his age learn everything that's fitting to learn about his religion. But, uh, the essence of this religion is not going to be what you learn. It's not going to be what you know of the law. It's not going to be what you observe of all the external precepts of the law. It's a religion that's going to be inside. Uh, but I say unto you, in the old... uh, you have heard it said, uh, an eye for an eye (indistinct) But I say unto you that- that if you just look after a woman the last... uh, uh, uh... In other words, the law is driven inside. It's much simpler, it's much deeper. Much more spiritual. And so there are no longer... you're no gonna... it's no longer going to be a question of external instructions like here. "They shall teach no more every man his neighbor and every man his brother saying, 'Know the Lord.' For all shall be made from the least of them even to the greatest," saith the Lord. Children of five and six can make some of the best Catholics because the, the essen- the essentials, all the essentials can be there. "I will forgive their iniquity and I will remember their sin no more." Thus saith the Lord, who give you the sun for the light of the day, the order of the moon and the stars for the light of the night, who stirred up the sea... Du, du, du, du, du, du, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun (laughs). Um, that was the, uh, "I will give my law in their bowels." You know, it's going to be inside. It's going to be in their... written in their hearts. "I will write in their heart." That's the famous quotation from Jeremiah about the New Testament. Also, in 33, um, uh, dun, dun, dun, dun. I know there's a prophecy about the child of Judah. I don't kind of think it talks about the covenant, no. (coughs) Uh, turn to Hebrews where he... Oh, one moment. "He's made my covenant with him." Um, Hebrews 8, where Saint Paul picks up on that quotation from Jeremiah. Eight. Um... Uh, and Saint Paul is picking up on that quotation precisely because the theme of Hebrews is the superiority of the New Testament to the Old Testament. And there you've got it in the Old Testament that the New Testament is going to be superior. That's the best argument of all to persuade people who believe in the Old Testament that the New Testament is superior, a quotation in the Old Testament itself saying the New Testament is superior. "And now he hath obtained a better ministry, for how much better also is he to mediate a better testament, which is a section on better promises." Because if the former testament had been faultless, there wouldn't have been a, there wouldn't have been a place for a second testament. But finding fault with the Old Testament, he saith, "Behold, the day shall come," and that quotation from Jeremiah. And now in verse 13 of Chapter 8 of Hebrews, "In saying new, he hath made the former old, and that which decayeth and groweth old is near its end." In other words, the New Testament has superseded the old, which is the whole argument. So you- you Corinthians are our little recommendation. The New Testament being written as it should be, this is Chapter 3 of 2 Corinthians, not on mosaic tablets of stone, but on your hearts. Because the New Testament is a testament of the spirit and of life, incomparably more glorious even the Old Testament, although the Old Testament blazed in glory, such glory that Moses had to veil his face in front of the people. The people couldn't talk to Moses because you... the glory of the Lord that he'd been talking to so shone on Moses' face that he had to put a veil in front of his face. Alas, that Old Testament is still veiled from the Jews. Saint Paul jumps cleverly... uh, cleverly, I mean smartly, from the veil over Mo- the veil covering Moses' face to the veil covering the Old Testament in the sense that the Jews couldn't look on the brightness of Moses' face because of the glory. But now the Jews can't see anything in the Old... they can't see the real glory of God in the Old Testament. They can't see the real meaning of the Old Testament. It's, it, it's blocked off from them. The Jews ever since, for 2,000 years, they've been carrying in their synagogues all over the world the 8... the Old Testament. They're faithful carriers of the Old Testament, but it's a closed book to them. They, they can't get inside it. They can't get anywhere near it. It's closed to them because they refuse to believe in Jesus Christ. The Old Testament is still veiled from the Jews, whereas Catholics worship God in spirit, in liberty, and in true glory. Chapter 4. "Therefore, we Catholic priests preach." He doesn't say Catholic priests, he says apostles, but it's the same thing. The essence of what Ca- Paul is talking about is the Catholic priest. "We Catholic priests preach with courage out in the open, hidden only from disbelievers. It's veiled only from disbelievers." Now it's, it's, it's, uh... The glory of the New Testament is out in the open, it's not hidden. But it is hidden from disbelievers. What... The only thing it's hidden from is disbelievers. The Catholic Church is there in the streets. Everybody knows it. But if you don't believe, you can't see what it is. "We preach Jesus Christ for your sakes, the light of God's glory. However, we priests remain fragile creatures. We carry this treasure in vessels of clay. We are vulnerable to all kinds of suffering unto death so that you should have life. However, we are confident that Jesus will give life to ourselves also and an enormous reward in heaven for our little troubles now." Chapter 5. "For we know that heaven is our destination, our desire, so long as we die in the state of grace." And Paul says clothed. We want to die clothed. That's the garment of the wedding feast. "And God gives us confidence that we will go to him." So we... God gives us confidence. Does this ring a bell for those who did Saint Paul last year? God gives us confidence. What gave the Galatians... what did Saint Paul say should give the Galatians confidence?What should be for the Galatians the sign that, that with the New Testament they were on track, that when they welcomed Paul and welcomed his preaching and converted, then they were on track. That was one thing, but more than that, Galatians 4, the Spirit of God crying, "Abba," within us, crying, "Father." It's also in Romans. "God gives us confidence that we will go to Him, so we do our best for Him because we will all be judged on the good or bad we have done. God sees our hearts. We hope you do too because all that we do is for your sakes, to bring you to Christ who died for us all, reconciling with Go- reconciling us with God as we pre-still. Do listen and do seize the moment of grace which is now." That corresponds to Romans, that Romans 1 and 2 Corinthians are all written about the same time, there are many cross references. Romans 13, uh, now is the time to convert, now is the day of pleasing to the Lord, now is the time to convert. That is an epistle at which mass? At which Sunday mass? Now is the time pleasing to the Lord, now is the time to rise up from the dead. Wake up. Get cracking. (?). No. First Advent, first Sunday of Advent which, which fits. Ro- look at Romans 13, Romans 13, beginning of 13. Uh, no, it's not re- uh, da, da, da, da, da, it's not the beginning of 13. It's, um... Where are we? Yes. It, uh... At the end of 13. Th- Th- Romans 13:11, "That knowing this is that it is now the hour for us to rise from sleep, for now our salvation is nearing the way we believe. The night is past and the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light." (coughs) "Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering impurities, not in contention and envy, but put you on the Lord Jesus Christ and make our provision for the flesh in its conquered businesses." That corresponds to this, uh, 6, 2 Corinthian 6. Uh, "Do seize the moment of grace which is now. For we priests are poor creatures, downtrodden by the world, but the power of God is within us. Your problem is not ourselves, but yourselves." S- the Corinthians obviously been trying to say that Paul is a jerk, that Paul is a runt, that Paul is a dwarf, Paul is a nerd. Uh, and Paul is saying, "No, I'm sorry. The, the, the, you're the problem, not me." Uh, "Do realize, as Catholics, you cannot mix with the world." Famous passage about the incompatibility of Christ and the world, Belial. Uh, end of 6, 2 Corinthian 6. "As Catholics you cannot mix with the world which is radically opposed to Christ. Leave the world behind you and then God will come to you." Seven, "So leave behind impurity and recognize that we are, we priests, are your true friends. What joy it was for us to meet Titus bringing good news of your love of meat. I am so happy that my letter made you sorry with a true and fruitful sorrow." That's how possibly 1 Corinthians is possibly a letter that got missed in between, that we don't know of in between 1 and 2 Corinthians. "You made Titus see that I was right to trust you. How we rejoice." What are 2 Corinthians 8 and 9 famous for, anybody? Anybody remember? Money. No, that's 1 Corinthians. Money. Money, that's right, yes. St. Paul talks for two chapters about money without once mentioning the word. I just keep saying to seminarians, "It's an art you will learn quite soon." Uh, a little cynically said. Then, uh, con- in connection with the apocalypse, get a load of this. Um, a strong farm worker who stands with both feet on the earth sees very real pictures of a coming great war between East and West. He lives in the area of Tsvetal in, uh, lower Austria, between, uh, lower Austria between Krans and Gmund, about 25 kilometers from the, uh, iron Curtain as it then was. He is, in 1987, still alive and, but keeps very quiet. He doesn't want to be known publicly and he gives no knowledge to those who, gives no information to anyone who visits him. Um, from his, ever since his 21st year, that's 1959, uh, things happen in this way with him. If he's completely relaxed and sitting down on a chair, or he's woken up in bed, but in wide a- wide awake and with open eyes, he sees in front of him thing- something like films. Uh, it's like in a cinema. In the corners of the room he can still see the background of the room, the, the background of the room that he's in is still perfectly recognizable, but there's like a film in front of him. And i- uh, in front of this still visible background of the room, there, in the middle of his, uh, vision, he sees these events. Uh, he experiences, uh, and s- even sees himself in these coming events as a talking and acting person, and he can see what the people are saying and so on. For instance, he saw the television announcement of Kennedy's murder, uh, e- e- exactly sometime before the president was killed. That was 1963. Uh, for a long time, he paid no great attention to these, uh, visions and simply said, "Well, that's the way it is." Uh, fir- only when he heard that, that there were men, that there were men who had second sight-And when he, in 1975 for the first time, uh, got hold of a book of prophecies in which things similarly described to what he had seen himself, only then did he begin to pay any attention to his experiences. He found that his own visions corresponded mostly with the The Song of the Linden Tree by Holzhauser and the report of Alois Irlmaier and, uh, father, uh, Father Hantwerker, which is out of the 18th century, I think. This farm worker, uh, sees, uh, overlapping events without their being in ordered succession, uh, and therefore in the- in their order, in the order they unfold, there may be mis- uh, mistakes. Um, as for the- the time that they're gonna happen, he can only speculate and, uh, draw, um, conclusions, try- try to work- to work back from the events. Um, for instance, from the development of, um, means of transport that he's seen, how old certain people in- uh, look that he knows, whether houses have been built in this and that place, whereas for- th- th- there are still- there are still none. Um, as the vegetation is on, he can sort of make a guess at the time. Things begin in the area of the Adriatic, a limited conflict in the Balkans, and end in Turkey. Now this is- uh, this- this little booklet was put out in 1987, '87. That's before troubles began in- among troubles began in Yugoslavia. Um, that's where the first great, uh, large-scale atom weapons, atom bombs are used. On the fields in our part of Austria here, I saw hardly any vegetation. It was spring. The men in the rest of Europe, Austria and German, uh, were saying with relief to one another, "Oh, for goodne- thank goodness nothing's happening with us." Uh, flooding in the Mediterranean Sea were caused by atom bomb explosions at a great height over the Adriatic. The shocks were clearly felt, um, uh, in our- our- our own area. The destruction of New York through an act of terrorism is the beginning of the real war, um, but still without notable effects upon mid Europe. The next phase is the fall- is the falling of like a worldwide, uh, fire rain, a rain of fire, which sets everything on fire. We're, uh, early summer and there's still no, uh, war, uh, in- in- in Austria. Before the, um... Sorry, I said that the war had broken out, but they... Not quite. Before the outbreak of the- of- of the complete and great war, the left, the leftists hold a, uh, triumphal procession because there are civil wars throughout the European community, and there's war in Aus- in East Africa from north to south un- uh, supported by the- by Russia. Uh, once there's the- the trouble from civil war, then there's the- the- through Austria, the Russian tank regiments march through or ru- uh, charge through in direction of the Adriatic, Italy and Yugoslavia, as through- as north of the Donau, of the Danube, in direction of Bavaria. Only in the middle of the summer, uh, does it come to short and total war. So there's sort of... This- this vision is of events starting some spring. I'm not saying it's next- this next spring. I- I don't know. (laughs) Some spring and piling up until there's total world war in the mid-summer. Um, there's a- there's a struggle in the Middle East, in the oil, uh, countries where the Russians throw out the Americans. China attacks in South Siberia and also with tanks in the area north of Vienna and Bohemia. His vision is of the Chinese attacking the Russians and then the Chinese coming through. Finally, um, there is, uh, things set on fire by a huge bomb attack in the neighborhood of Prague. The Earth's surface gets torn apart in that, uh, part of the world and, uh, volcanic poison gases and magma come pouring out. There is week-long poisoning of the Earth's atmosphere and a huge worldwide earthquake, uh, as a consequence. For a whole- for a l- for a whole day, the Earth shakes and trembles. Um, just imagine anything trying to stay standing. So a- then a judgment of God, um...... breath, breathing difficulties, three days' darkness, many people dying, brings to an end the madness of the armaments race and of h- man's pride. Uh, after that, there is in a German cathedral the consecration of an emperor and the return of the pope who had fled back to Rome. Islam un- is finished and all Christian churches and sects reunite. The few survivors will for a couple of dozen years live in the fear of God, in Christian love of neighbor, and in piety and in peace. Uh, happy anybody who experiences that time. (knocks on wood) This, this is it. I mean, I don't know if... Th- th- give a few details as far as I'm concerned, but this is the- (coughs) ... kind of future that stands in front of us, which stands in front of you, and I think it's gonna be the lifetime of all of us. I think this is easily in my lifetime as well as yours. This is the chastisement, uh, the end of the Fifth Age, and the coming into the Sixth Age of the Church. What I don't think I will see is the Antichrist. I think, I think some of you may see, but I think all of us are gonna see this. I don't think it's very far away. I don't know. These events in a little more detail: the destruction of New York- (laughs) ... (clicks tongue) happens in early summer. Uh, in mid-Europe at that point in time, we, uh, still, uh, are not experiencing any kind of war. New York will be quite unexpectedly through two small, um, uh, atom bombs, uh, de-... will be destroyed quite unexpectedly through two small atom bombs, dropped from above i- in amongst the hou-... which will dr- be dropped from above and explode amongst the houses. The skyscrapers and buildings of Manhattan, um, do not fall over or collapse, but they are mostly, uh, as... while remaining complete and only leaning over a little, pushed aside by the force of the explosion. Um, like this I can't understand. Um, it looks as though they sort of gently and quietly lean over and fall. Uh, they will be at the same time worn away from underneath like a carrot, which one... which you stand and... what do you do to peel over, um, a vegetable dish or something? Or scrape over a da- b- is it? Scrape with one of those, uh... And they will get smaller and smaller until then, then they fall, fall down, and the area on which the famous New York skyline rose will be flat earth. Um, I saw myself standing after the announcement on the radio with other inhabitants of the village and commenting on the event. Uh, according to the s- what was said, it must have been some, um, oh, hm, I'm stuck, some daring attack by some psychopathic opponent. Ayy? Uh, Gaddafi, or much more likely, um, now, Saddam Hussein. Th- the United States... In order... This, this so-and-so, in order to try to cut off his impeachment, threw a whole lot more rockets at Iraq in a way that Iraq had no immediate way of defending itself against, all in the name of righteousness, in the name of the United Nations. Imagine how furious those Arabs are. The only thing that could be said in favor or in defense of the Americans is that they are the tools of... And the Arabs know that. The Arabs know that perfectly well. The Arabs know who their real enemy are, which is why they will bomb New York. It's very likely. They'll just want to destroy all that vermin in New York. With a bit of- (coughs) With a bit of luck, they could get the whole Senate in a one go. (laughs) Sorry, what did I say? Um... (laughs) I heard them say that this would be the re- act of revenge of terrorists. (coughs) Exactly. It's the act of revenge of terrorists. That's exactly what it would be. Very possible. 1987, can you imagine? Certainly that what the Americans have done was not very good, but that they therefore go to destroying a whole city, that's surely going too far. That's what I heard the people saying. So, it's interesting. But, uh, you know, the... All I can say is, you know, I don't know if these details are true. I don't know if it's gonna happen exactly like this. What I do know is that the sins of today's world absolutely match something like this happening. You've heard me say several times, if the sins th- if the sins prior to 1914 caused the First World War, which was an unimaginable horror in its own time, and now people look back at the 1910 to 1914, "Oh, it was a wonderful age. What was so sinful about it?" (smacks lips) Well, of course, the Freemasons were triumphant in France. The Freemasons were triumphant in, in Germany. The Freemasons had long been triumphant in England. The Freemasons were running the United States. All the nations had to be punished because they'd all given themselves over to, uh, the devils of Freemasonry.But, but apparently life was sweet and nice. People look back at it as a golden age before the first World War. The sins were so bad, caused the First World War. Then we came into the period in between the two wars, which only lasted from 1918 to 1939. That's only 21 years. And again, looking back at today, what were the big sins of the 1990... And yet there was a Second World War which was much worse than the first. The First World War was about 15, 14, 15 million casualties. Second World War was they say about 60, 66 million casualties. So the Second World War was much worse than the first. What were the terrible sins between the two wars? Then you think of 50 years, 1945 to 1995 plus some, you think of the sins of these last tens of years, twice as long as in between the two wars, and much more than twice as sinful. So if, if World War II was proportionate to the sins between the two wars, what's proportionate to the sins that have been building up since the Second World War? (coughs) Something of this sort. That's, that's the world that's in front of you, in front of me too. This is, this is reality. For my money, this is reality. So, what can you do about it? Uh, what can you and I do about it? Uh, not much. Um, I mean, but the, and the, you know, the various, the, the s- the inhabitants of the cities are gonna be racing through the country grabbing anything to eat, murdering, killing, et cetera, et cetera, to all the inhabitants of the country. Everybody's going to be punished, because of course there are probably today, there's just as much television in the country as there is in the city. Just as m- just as many abortions in the country as in the city. Somebody was telling me in a country... Where was I recently? I think it was in, uh, where was it? Uh, Germany. Germany, I think it was. Now, the dance halls are just as bad out in the country as they are in the city. It's a citified way of life. It's an industrialized, monified, and citified way of life out in the country. There's none of the old-fashioned... There's very little left of the old-fashioned, what used to be the old-fashioned country, virtuous country way of life. Used to be a standing contrast to the city. Obviously, there's a lot of, lot of, lot of exceptions, but generally... But that's gone, that's finished. The corruption of the city has gone way, way out all over the country. Therefore, the country's going to be punished as well. In God's books, which is the only books that count, every reason to think the country will punished just as bad as the city. So, this... What can you do about it? Um, oh, duty of state and prayer. Do, you know, you and I do our duty day by day according to what presents itself to us as our duty, and the only important thing, always, of course, of course, of course, is to die in the state of grace. That's the only thing that matters. Um, what does it matter if the world falls down around my ears and I die in the state of grace? What does it matter if I own all of the skyscrapers in Manhattan and die in the disgrace of God? So, but it's going to be very unpleasant, and as they fre- say in French, "We will not have stolen it." In other words, eh, eh, i- it, th-this horrible future has been well deserved. It belongs to us. It fits. It's what's due to us, and it's what's coming. So, um, as they say in American, "Enjoy." (laughs) All right, the apocalypse. Uh, uh, and this is not, uh, you know, what we're talking about the end of the fifth age isn't even the end of the world. What it's going to be like at the end of the world is another b-ball game. But these prophecies fit entirely the idea, which is really quite frequent in prophesies, that there's going to be a great chastisement, uh, the destruction of a large part, a large part of mankind, a period of peace and conversion, and a great and glorious triumph of the Church, with perhaps many of the machines gone and a much simpler and healthier way of life. And then the corruption of that is the arrival of the Antichrist. Maybe 30, 40 years after the chastisement. Who knows? Who knows? All right. Chapter tw- uh, the end of chapter 11, I think we had not quite finished. Uh, the seventh trumpet. The seventh angel preaches telling of the imminent second coming and of the urgent need to convert. That, of course, is what all of these horrible events are about, New York collapsing and so on. It's all about the need for souls to be saved and the need of conversion. The Lord God would love to be able to do it gently. He would love to not have to punish like that. He would love to be able to avoid a third world war. But if men use their free will to insist upon sinning, sinning, sinning, sinning, sinning so that in the end all of them will throw themselves into hell, the Lord God's got to intervene somehow. He's got to break up that situation before absolutely everybody falls into hell. Because if this situation went on much longer, you've s- heard me say several times, there's no reason, there's no human reason why the society should survive. This situation is far more crazy than the society is sane, so to speak, except for the support of God. Except for the help of God. So, but this, um, this is what stands in front of us. It's called Apokalypse. Um, fire wheel. Fire wheel, the apocalypse. It's, it's, it's, uh, that's what... This is what lies ahead. This is what lies ahead. What lies ahead of us, you'd say in English. What lies ahead of us. What still lies ahead of us. So-Um, the 24 elders we saw, the, uh, that was, um, "The pagans have risen up against it. The time of reckoning has come." Um, so, verse 19, which, "There was opened the temple of God in Heaven and it was seen the Ark of the Covenant in His temple, and there were thunder and voices and earthquakes and much light, uh, hail." Um, from the end of the world, which was the seventh trumpet, we come back to the incarnation and the origins of the church. So this is a new vision starting, the, the woman and the dragon. Uh, verse 19 could have been put by the divider of chapters together with chapter 12. It's a kind of transition verse. From the end of the world back to the incarnation and the origins of the church. Verse 19, uh, the temple of God is the spiritual worship of God. God is spirit and will be worshipped in spirit. John 4, our Lord speaking to the Samaritan woman. A spiritual worship is coming. The s- temple is the spiritual worship of God. John 4:21 onwards. After the Old Testament, the Old Testament of blood and fear, that's of course a caricature, but still, after the Old Testament of blood and fear, the New Testament opened up a religion of the heart and of love. That's a dangerous statement, because there's plenty of blood and fear in the New Testament, and there's plenty of love in the Old Testament. Nevertheless, obviously you see what it means, and delinquents exaggerate the roughness of the Old Testament and the love, love, love of the New Testament, and it's not to be exaggerated, but there is an element of truth obviously, especially since it was the sacred heart who revealed the love of God in a person. The New Testament opened up a religion of the heart and of love. The Ark of the Alliance here is the humanity of Christ, which is central to the new worship. The Ark of the Covenant is the humanity of Christ, which is obviously right in the middle of the New Testament. The apostles of Christ produce miracles, that's lightning, preaching, voices, earthquakes, conversions, hail, persecutions. So the preaching of the apostles, these apostles produce miracles, preaching, conversions, persecutions. All hell breaks loose as the apostles begin to preach the risen Lord. The whole empire, the whole Roman Empire goes into convulsions, but finally converts. Miracles, lightning, preaching, voices, conversions, earthquakes, persecutions, hail. It stands to reason. And then we come in chapter 12 to the famous vision of the woman and the dragon. "And a great sign appeared in Heaven, a woman clothed in the sun and the moon, uh, in the sun, and the moon beneath her, with the moon beneath her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." The woman is the church, firstly the church. Not firstly the mother of God, but firstly the church. Clothed in Christ, dressed in the sun with the l- the moon beneath her feet. The woman is the church clothed in Christ having beneath its feet the moon, i.e., in other words, the sublunary world. The church is clothed in Christ and it has the f- the world beneath its feet. Just like the moon has the Earth beneath it, the church has the, um... I'm sorry, it's not the moon has the Earth. The Earth, the Earth, the moon is beneath. The moon is beneath the woman's feet like the Earth is beneath the church, beneath the church's feet. Why is the woo- moon compared to the world or why is the world compared to the moon? ? What is characteristic of the moon? ? It replaces the sun. Yes, that it does, yes. You've all heard the story of the ? I've sh- told you this one before. You say, you, you shake your head automatically, go on. (laughs) It might take us to 3:00. (laughs) No, it's not that long. He says, "Which is more useful, the sun or the moon?" He says, "The moon," because the sun shines during the day when you have plenty of light anyway, whereas the moon shines in the night when it's needed. Um, uh, why is the world, the sublunary world compared to the moon? It changes ? That's it, exactly. The change, the, the moon waxes and wanes. Do, by the way, all of you should know, um, if the moon looks like a C, it's decreasing.... and what all- the old-fashioned word is waning, W-A-N-I-N-G. Whereas if the moon looks like a D, it's the opposite. C is D and D is C, then it's crescent. It's crescent, which is the Latin for growing, or the old-fashioned English word is waxing. To wax is to grow and to wane is to fade away. So whenever you look at the moon, you- it's always- it's never quite upright, so you usually tilt it. (coughs) If it looks like a C, it's, uh, decreasing. If it looks like a D, it's increasing. It's the opposite. Crescent, decreasing, so... The opposite, that helps you remember. Um, then, the, uh, the- the moon waxes and wanes. It's grow- it's always growing and- or growing more or growing less and the- the- it's constantly changing, in other words, and therefore the moon represents this world, which is always changing. So the- the constantly changing world is beneath the feet of the Church. The 12-star crown is the teaching of the 12 apostles. When the mother of God was put into a stained-glass window in the first- first cathedral of the Am- of the United States, which was in Baltimore, uh, a 13th star was added in the crown around the head of the Blessed Virgin. (coughs) 13 stars of the American flag. Uh, the 13 original states. The stripes. Thirteen stars to correspond to the 13 stripes of the, uh, the flag. Uh, the birth pangs, and she ha- she was pre- uh, she carried a child in her womb and she cried out as she gave birth and she was- suffered greatly in order to give birth. Uh, the birth pangs are the Church's yearning to give birth to souls for all eternity. The Church's ye- yearning to give birth to souls for all eternity. The Church straining to give birth to souls, to give birth to salvation of souls. That's the first application of this. So firstly, the woman stands for the Church. Secondly, the woman does also stand for the Blessed Virgin Mary. That's why it's often in many a stained-glass window, she's shown in this, uh, Our Lady of Guadalupe has the moon beneath her feet. Uh, the woman is the Blessed Virgin Mary clothed in the Word, clothed in the word of God, with the 12 fruits of the Holy Ghost, yearning to sa- yearning also to save souls, yearning to save souls, and groaning over the cross and passion of her Son, tortured by the cross and passion of her Son. A third application of this, a third meaning of this woman clothed in the sun, is holy souls. (beeping) Again, the 12 stars are the 12 fruits. Obviously, less of the Holy Ghost than with the Blessed Virgin Mary, but still the 12 fruits, and they are yearning for heaven. They're in great agony because they're yearning to- for heaven, the holy souls in purgatory. (scuffling)