... the old, the Old Testament prophets were made clear by Christ, the coming of Christ. This is not the second coming, uh, but the, the, a vision of the, a, of Christ's... a vision of Christ coming, a vision of the angel, which is Christ intervening. "And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, 'Seal up the things which the servants have spoken and write them not.'" John grasps the full sense of the Old Testament, but the moment hasn't come for... in his time to lay it out. It'll be the doctors of the third age of the church that will do that. "The angel whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the earth lift up his hand to heaven." Uh, our Lord pointing all men towards heaven, "And he swore by him that liveth forever and ever, who created Him and things which are therein, that the earth and things which are in it, the sea and the things which are in it, time should be no longer." Our Lord is declaring with a solemn oath by himself that the world will come to an end, and there will come a moment... There's no more time for fairness. In other words, it's not an, uh... History, human history has not opened and going on forever and ever and ever to the or whatever. "In the days... But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he should begin to sound the trumpet, the mystery of God should be finished as he's declared by his servants, the prophets." Uh, when the preachers of the age of the Antichrist are heard, when the voice... "In the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he should begin to sound the trumpet." The seventh trumpet? The half hour after the Antichrist. When preachers of the age of Antichrist are heard, then God's judgment always will be made manifest when prophesied, as prophesied down the ages. "The mystery of God should be finished, as He has declared by His servants, the prophets." Now, the seventh trumpet is the end of the world. The world will come to an end and, uh, there will be a general judgment. Um, "The mystery of God should be finished." The, uh, the history of the man will be finished and all mysteries will be revealed, or a great deal of mysteries will be revealed in the general judgment. And eight, "And I heard a voice from heaven again, speaking to me and saying, 'Go and take the book that is opened from the hand of the angel who standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.'" Uh, go and receive the book. Go... The voice from heaven tells John, um, as a figure of preachers needing above all a deep knowledge of scripture, not John, uh, Jo- Jo- Go and get an understanding of scripture from our Lord. Um, go and take the book that is open. Go and get an understanding of scripture from our Lord. From the hand of the angel who standeth upon the sea and upon the earth, from our Lord. Go and get an understanding of scripture from our Lord. But John himself personally doesn't need that. Why not? Damien Fox. Um, because he's been, uh... He'll be at the end of the day before? Uh... Because he can't... Yeah, that's part of the scripture, yes. Part of scripture. The, the Old Testament prophets, but, um, I guess, yes. Another reason, well, let's say that, that... Yes, another reason is that the apostles themselves, of course, were all inspired with a complete understanding of scripture, uh, at Pentecost or around Pentecost. Look at Luke 24:45. It's an important point. It's a verse I've made, m- referred to before. Luke 24:45. The apostles were given a special grasp of scripture. "He said to them... And our Lord said to them, 'These are things which I spoke to you while I was wi- with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which are written in the law and prophets and the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me.' Then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures." So that is the apostles being given the understanding of... There in Luke is the Old Testament, obviously. In the Apocalypse here, the Old Testament may be also the Epistles of Saint Paul because, you know, they're quite tough. So, uh, could... But John as a figure of the preachers... So it's not John himself, because John himself grasps scripture. So if John is told here by the voice from heaven to go and take the book, it is... John is standing in for the preachers who need, above all, a deep knowledge of scripture. So the preachers needing a deep knowledge of scripture are figured here by John. John is told to go and get from the angel, which is Christ, the book. Go and get a complete understanding of scripture. "And I went to the angel," verse 9, "Saying unto him that he should give me the book. And he said to me, 'Take the book and eat it up, and it shall make thy belly bitter, but in thy mouth it shall be sweet as honey.'" Um, verse 9, "And I went to the angel." The pre- The "I went." The preacher must leave all in order to go to Christ."I went away ... abie ad Angelum, and I went forth to the angel saying to him that he should give me the book." Give me the book means that John begged for a deep knowledge of scripture. John, on behalf of the preachers, begged for a deep knowledge of scripture. (paper rustling) I've just been reading again somewhat attentively because I'm due to talk about it at some stage, the little book of Cardinal Ratzinger. Uh, and it's clear that, um, at the time of Vatican II, everything comes back to, everything sort of came back to exegesis. Um, I think I gave you the argument. It's a pretty incredible argument. I think I gave it to you. Let me see if I can work it out again. This is how Cardinal Ratzinger relates it, and he was in a position to know because he was right in the leading pack of all of those modernist theologians. He's a nice guy, no question about it, but he was right in there with the rats, so. Um, there's a- a German exegete or theologian called Geiselman who in the 1950s studied Vatican II. Uh, I'm sorry. He studied Trent. How could he study Vatican II in the 1950s? (laughing) He studied Trent. He studied Trent, and he found that on this crucial question of the sources of revelation, you know, what the church, what the classic ch- what the church classically teaches is that there are two equal sources of revelation, tradition and scripture. And Trent, uh, the first draft of what Trent said about it was something like, "All tradition is... All revelation is found partly in Scripture and partly in tradition." Then Trent... that was in the drafts of Trent. Trent canceled that and said, "All tradition is found, all revelation is found in Scripture and tradition." Okay. Now, I can think why Trent did that. What Geiselman said was, "If he's doing away with partly..." If Trent did away with partly, partly, it's be- it's because what Trent thought was that re- that revelation is wholly in Scripture and wholly in tradition. There's no partly, partly. There's not one party one and another party in another. Therefore, if it's not partly, partly, then it's wholly and wholly. So it's totally in, uh, Scripture and totally in tradition. If it's totally in Scripture, then there can't be any revelation outside of Scripture. And therefore, we're right back with anybody? Sola scriptura. Sola scriptura of? Martin Luther. Martin Luther. And then at the foot of the page, Ratzinger has the nerve to turn around and say how far we are from the sola scriptura of Luther. I- I- I- (laughing) I don't know how he does it, but he does it. You can see it's been mistranslated right there, but any case. So therefore, therefore, all revelation is in Scripture, therefore exegesis is king. And Ratzinger says that from that moment onwards, the exegetes, uh, ruled the roost with just this little argument. Bec- uh, uh, there, there he says the- the catchword was, "How stupid can people get? How stupid can all the... all these people leading the church, these intellectuals leading the church, misleading the church, how stupid can intellectuals get?" I- I... Anybody who knows them will tell you they can get very stupid indeed. Um, I've had the great fortune not to know many of them. Um, in any case, but they have influence. They have influence. Uh, what Geiselman's trick phrase apparently, the phrase that as it's translated in this little book by Ratzinger, the phrase that w- the buzzword on everybody's lips was apparently material completeness, meaning the material completeness of revelation is there in Scripture. Not the formal completeness, but the material complete. So it's all there in Scripture somehow or other. Therefore, that's how the- the exegetes, the exegetes became king, and of course, the exegetes were the modernist exegetes. So again, it's the scr- it's Scripture. It's the falsification of Scripture. So the right understanding of Scripture is very important. And I've read somewhere, I can't remember where, but they... somewhere, it's maybe no signifi- no great significance, but at the... in the end times there's going to be a new grasp of Scripture which- which very... seems to me very possible. In any case, um, uh, the... John here is begging for a- a deep knowledge of Scr- begging on behalf of the preachers for a deep knowledge of Scripture, obviously a true knowledge of Scripture, which will not go along with all of this nonsense, the multiple... the- th- the frequently available nonsense that there is. John begs for a real knowledge of Scripture. "Give me the book." "He said to me, 'Take the book and eat it.'" Uh, devour it, study, learn, meditate. Study, study, learn and meditate. Devour the book equals study, learn and meditate Scripture. Yeah, I buy that. "And it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey."The stomach is the lower part of human nature for which the Word of God is a constant penance. This is not exactly a pain in the neck, but a pain in the- a pain in the belly. Dolor in ventre. So, the stomach here stands for the lower part of human nature for which the Word of God is a constant penance. "My bowels, my bowels are in pain. The senses of my heart are troubled within me. I will not hold my peace and my soul hath heard the sound of the trumpet, the cry of battle." Anybody? "My bowels, my bowels are in pain." That's Isaiah. Quite- well, getting warm. Jeremiah. Jeremiah, right. Uh, Jeremiah 4:19, uh, "Destruction upon destructions call when all the earth is laid to waste. My tents are destroyed on a sudden and my pavilions in a moment." Cardinal Innocentius said Jeremiah is our prophet. (coughs) Well, opinion, well said. He's a prophet for our time because he, he lived through that terrible corruption of the, uh, the end of the First Temple, the, eh, the time of the end of the First Temple just before the ba- uh, the, um, Nebuchadnezzar came in with the Babylonians to clean out. And, uh, the glory of the temple was departed. Who saw the glory of the temple departing from the First Temple? Who actually saw a vision of the glory, the Shekinah departing? Peter, have you any idea? No idea? No idea you nod your head. Uh, . No idea, okay. Uh, who saw? Ezekiel is right, yes, Ezekiel. Ezekiel saw that all the corruption going, had a vision of the corruption going on in the temple, and saw the glory of the Lord departing. When did the Lord- glory of the Lord come upon the temple? Holden, do you know? The First Temple, when did the glory of the Lord- Weber, do you know? Viera? It was dedicated by Solomon. When it was dedicated by? Solomon, that's right, yes. When it was dedicated... Those again verses that... Look at, look it up, look up both those, those cases. The first will be, uh, Kings, III Kings, the dedication of the temple. III Kings, um... Chapter... Sorry? XIV. 14? Shun- No, no, sorry. II Chronicles. Sorry? II Chronicles 5. I c- I... II Chronicles 5. II Chro- Okay. II Chronicles. It covers the same period of time. Look it, look it up in II Chronicles. II Chronicles 5:... Someone's blessings and prayer. May not be... And when he finished, then the, the, then the temple... ♪ Dum dum dum dum, dum dum dum dum dum dum dum. ♪ It says fire came down. Chapter 7, fire came down and consumed the Holocaust. And the majesty of the Lord filled the house. II Chron- II Chronicles 7:1, "Neither could the priests enter into the temple of the Lord because the majesty of the Lord had filled the temple of the Lord." That's what in Hebrew I think they call the Shekinah, or Shekinah, I don't know. S-H-E-K-I-N-A-H. And it's the cloud of the majesty and glory of the Lord. Moreover, all the children of Israel saw the fire coming down and the glory of the Lord upon the house, and falling down with their faces to the ground, upon the stone pavement they adored and praised the Lord because He is good, because His mercy endures forever. And the king and all the people sacrificed victims before the Lord. And the King Solomon offered sacrifice of 22,000 oxen. 22,000 oxen. 120,000 rams, and the king and all the people dedicated the House of God. Wow, that's a lot of animals. Woof. Then, uh, the departing. Turn to Ezekiel... That's the descending of the glory of the Lord upon the First Temple just as it was dedicated. Ezekiel, uh, ver- around 9:10. Uh, chapter 8 he sees, uh, the abominations. Um... 9:10. 10:18. 10:18. Could easily be it. I think you're right. Ten-e- "The glory of the Lord went forth from the threshold of the temple and stood over the cherubims. And as they went out, the wheels also followed and it stood in the entry of the east gate of the house of the Lord and the glory of the Lord of Israel was over them." Um, yes, they're, they're departing. I think that's right. That is it, I think. Um... Uh, da, da, da, da...The glory of the Lord was lifted up from above the care of to the threshold of the house, and the house is filled with cloud, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the Lord, but it's departing. 5- yes. Um, the glory of the Lord is departing. Uh, ♪ Dum, dum, dum, dum. ♪ Verse 23. Uh, same chapter 10? 11 to 23. I'm sorry. 11 to 23. I beg your pardon. 11:23, "And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood over the mountains on the east side of the city. And the spirit lifted me up and brought me into Chaldea to them and kept to me a vision by the spirit of God. The vision which I had seen was taken up with me." I- yes. It's certainly the sense is that the glory of the Lord is quitting the temple, that's certainly the sense. It's not quite clear from the text but I'm sure that that's the sense. So that's the sign that, uh, the temple is being abandoned and the Babylonians are arriving and they will sack the whole of Jerusalem, and they will destroy the First Temple. So, um, uh, Jeremiah 4 verse 19 was the, my stomach is in agony, my stomach is in agony. Um, so, "And he will make my- thy stomach go bitter but in thy mouth there will- it will be like sweet honey." The Word of God, uh, i- i- the mouth is the higher part of human nature for which God's word is a continual sweet refreshment. And here, Psalm 118 verse 103, "How sweet are thy words to my palate more than honey to my mouth. By thy commandments, I've had understanding, therefore, I have hated every way of iniquity." So Psalm 118 verse 103, so the stomach stands for the lower part of human nature for which the Word of God is a constant penance. The mouth is the higher part of human nature for which God's word is a continual sweet refreshment. And I took the book... from the hand of the angel and I devoured it on behalf of all of the preachers, and it was in my mouth like sweet honey, and when I had swallowed it, my stomach turned bitter. Verse 11, "And he said to me, 'Now (Latin)' " Uh, sorry, I lost it here again. Uh, now you must go, uh, and he said, "Thou must prophesy again to many nations, and peoples, and tongues, and kings." Uh, after John devoured scripture, he would want to go to heaven. When he's understood the fullness of the truth of God, all he wants is to go and join God. But the angel says to him, because sure enough, it- as John's higher nature is sweetly nourished, his lower nature is more disgusted than ever. All he wants is to quit this life, but the angel tells him, "You must go, uh, to prophesy again to the nations and p- nations and peoples and tongues and many kings." Uh, so the angel is saying to him, uh, that after the island of Patmos, he must return to Ephesus. He's- John is presently on the island of Patmos in exile. The angel is telling me he will have to go back to Ephesus once more to feed his flock, and to prophesy once more for the gen- the tribes, and peoples, and nations, and so on. He must feed his flock and write his gospel for all future countries and generations. He must feed his flock and write his gospel, which is not yet written. He must go back to Ephesus and feed his flock, and write his gospel for all future generations, and kings, and tribes, and nations. After chapter 9, the assault by the powers of evil upon the church under the reign of the Antichrist, the- the author now shows the help that God provides to his servants against these formidable events. On the one hand, a special help from the son of God and the renewed preaching of the gospel in chapter 10. On the other hand, the intervention of two mysterious witnesses who are going to strengthen th- the faithful of Christ in the last days, and whose mission is described in chapter 11.So this is- this little chapter that we've seen, Chapter 10, is a vision of, uh, a renewal of the gospel. It- the vision takes the form of, uh, John himself asking for a grasp of scripture. But as being part of the sixth trumpet, it's a special grasp of scripture for the preachers at the time of the an- at the time of the Antichrist, before the general judgment. The seventh trumpet will be immediately after the general judgment. So the first help is a renewal of the gospel. The second help, Chapter 11, is the two witnesses. Any questions on Chapter 10? Selinger? Is there a difference between the normal scripture in like Verse 10 and 11 and, uh, Verse 4? Um, uh, Verse 4... is John wanting to write down in the f- at the time that he's on Patmos, he- he wants to write down everything that he's learning, everything that's being revealed to him about scripture, and he's told not to write it down because the time hasn't yet come for that to be made available. This- this knowledge of scripture, the time hasn't yet, in John's own time, the time has not come for that to be made available, right? Then the la- the latter part of Chapter 10, uh, John is, uh, a figure or he is standing in for the preachers at the time of the Antichrist who are going to need a special grasp of scripture, all right? So, um, he stands in for them, uh, that, uh, they will be given a special help in the time of the Antichrist. But again, the end of the chapter is back to John personally, uh, when John sort of standing in for- th- under the sixth trumpet, standing in for the preachers of the time of the Antichrist, uh, is again shown the real content and meaning of scripture. He wants to forget everything and just go to heaven so the angel has to tell him, "Look, you, we're back to the first age of the church again, or the early part of the second age, back to the year 100. John, you've got to g- you've got to still go back to Ephesus." Right? Because John, in these visions, is kind of above time. He's in and out of his own time. John is, you know, Saint Paul says, uh, "Whether in the body or out of the body, I don't know. God alone knows." Right? John, these visions are above time. The- the- the whole history of the Church is passing in front of his eyes in a mysterious form. So sometimes his mind is being carried, you know, 2,000 years into the future, and then he's being brought back down to earth to his own situation because he's in time and out of it in a certain way, all right? So, um, part of what's, part- some of the verses apply to his own time and situation, others apply to the situation close to the end of the world, all right? Anything else on Chapter 10? It's (laughs) it's not an easy book. Uh, somebody quoted to me something from Father Kramer's book on the Apocalypse which was nonsense. I- I thought it was nonsense. So- so the- the- the trouble, this- the- the- this commentary has the enormous advantage that it doesn't get into very much. It doesn't try to a- apply it to this or that situation, this or that particular historical situation. It remains rather more general, except of course for the ages of the Church. That it does apply to and I- I think that's- I- I think that's accurate. But, um, it doesn't try to say that here's this event in history, here's that event in history. Because even if in the mind- in the- in the mind of God, the, uh, such and such an event in history is an example of the pattern that- the spiritual pattern of human events that John is talking about, it seems to me still that it's the pattern of events which is more important than the particular events. John is talking about patterns rather than particular events which is why they keep being able to be applied, well it seems to me. People keep thinking they apply to this event, they apply to that event. Firstly people... often get it wrong, it seems to me, they- they often get it wrong where they try to apply it to this or that event, not always wrong, but somebody like- and I haven't read all of Father Kramer's book, but, uh, he's saying that sort of the United States will keep the faith until the end. The United States has never had the faith. (laughs) People in the United States have had the faith but the United States as a nation's never had the faith, it's obvious. Never. So, you know, the United Nations- the United States will keep the faith. So, you know, how can he make sense that he... so that's an example of another- another of these commentaries on the Apocalypse which you don't want to bother with, which- which, but this one I think is reliable. This- because it- because it doesn't- it stays at the level of patterns which I think is great. All right, uh, Fox, do you had something else? (?).No, the seventh angel is the, uh, the, in verse... "When the vo- in the days of the voice of the seventh angel." No. The seventh angel is the seventh trumpet, which is, uh, chapter 11 verse 15, "And the seventh angel sounded the trumpet and great voices were heard in heaven saying, 'It is over with the kingdom of this world.'" Right? Do you see that? Chapter 11 verse 15? That's the seventh angel, which is the seventh trumpet, which is the preachers immediately after the Antichrist, all right? You sound dubious. I just, I just think it's (inaudible) becoming of our, our Lord. Uh, the seventh trumpet is not yet the coming of our Lord. It's just before the coming of our Lord, the return of our Lord, right? The seventh trumpet is that period between the death of the Antichrist and the coming of our Lord. It's the very, very end of the world, 45 days if we read Daniel correctly, a month and a half, right? Okay. Chapter 11, so this is the other special help of God at the time of the Antichrist, the s- we're still in the sixth trumpet, the preachers of the time of the Antichrist. Um, we saw the verse chapter 9 was the locusts who were a figure of the special, specially harmful and hypocritical kind of heretics attacking the church ju- before the Antichrist. That's our situation today, generally speaking. Then we saw, still with the sixth trumpet, the renewal of the... like the renewal of the gospel in chapter 9, uh, chapter 10. Now we see the return of the two witnesses. This is another... it's... this surely will have a particular application at the time of the Antichrist and most people, most commentators think that the two witnesses will be Enoch and Elias come back upon Earth. Presently, Elias left the earth in a chariot of fire and, as far as any human being saw, never died and some of the church fathers think that the, the two of them... Enoch depends upon... so we'll come to it, we'll come to it in a moment. Enoch also was thought didn't die. Elias will preach to the Jews un- under the Antichrist. Enoch will preach to the Gentiles because Enoch is a Gentile, uh, as a Jew. And is a ve- there are verse or verses in scripture which suggests that Enoch also didn't die. It's thought that the two of them are somewhere on the face of the earth writing the true history of the world. So, you know, they're getting a whole lot of newspapers, all the newspapers and magazines. (laughs) There they are, you know. Maybe they've got a computer by now and they're doing a lot of, doing a lot of word processor, who knows? Uh, in any case, uh, they're writing the tr- they're, they're writing the true history of the world which, which is quite a lot different from the, uh, everything you and I are given to read. Um, so this is what the two witnesses, uh, ? Um, how would they have it, the church be prepared for the sixth trumpet because didn't some of them say that the end of the world was very close to them? Uh, I honestly don't know because I don't know the church fathers. So I don't know what the church fathers said but, uh, um, they may have thought that, you know, the, the two witnesses were... they, they... I'm sure they, they certainly believed in chapter 11 that because it's scripture. So, uh, they may have thought that the two witnesses were coming really quite soon, I don't know. They may have thought, you know... because Saint Paul in, um, Thessalonians has to warn the pe- the Christians against thinking that, you know, the end of the world is for tomorrow. In the early part of the church, early times of the church, many Christians thought that it... few will have thought that it was going to last 2,000 years. Few thought that. Many thought that it was going to be, let's say, 200 years at the most, maybe 20 years. The coming of Christ, Christ was, was so dramatic that, uh, they thought he was going to come again, you know, to... the contrast between Christ and the world must have seemed so sharp and the condemnation of the world by Christ must have seemed likewise so sharp that they must have thought he was coming quite soon. Many of them did think he was coming quite soon. So they may have thought that there would... the two incidents were for that period. I don't know. As ti- as the time went on obviously, and it was obvious that Christ wasn't coming back in 20 years nor in 200 years, then he began to lengthen out. But I think that Gregory the Great in 600, around 600 or... uh, he thought the world was in a terrible, terrible state and I don't know how much Gregory, how much longer Gregory, Gregory the Great thought the world was going to go on for. In any case he, he tried to deal with the situation as it was coming at him and he laid the foundations for the Middle Ages. I mean, you know, he laid down the structure of the Middle Ages which was an extraordinary achievement but he did it thinking that, you know, the situation was completely gone, done for, which, uh, you know. So... but I don't... I haven't read much, much of the church fathers alas. Has anybody here read much of the... Can anybody else answer that question? I, I don't know. I don't know. All right, the two witnesses we've got, chapter 11, "And there was given me a reed like unto a rod and it was said to me, 'Arise and measure the temple of God in the altar and them that adore therein.' But the court which is without the temple cast out and measure it not because it is given unto the Gentiles and the holy city shall... they shall tread underfoot two and 40 months.""And I will give unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks that stand before the Lord of the Earth." Um, uh, for writing his gospel, John will receive special lights, including a rod of discretion. Or you might li- you might say a yardstick. We would call it today a- a yardstick, a stick to measure. A rod of discretion. To know how to convey the Word of God to diverse classes of men, to various classes of men. A rod of discretion to know how to convey the Word of God to various classes of men. This rod, as- as- I'm sorry, it's- in- in- uh, I'm sorry, it's a reed like unto a rod. In Latin, it's a... Yes, that's what it is, it's a reed. I'm sorry, it's a reed like unto a rod. So he will receive a r- a reed of discretion. Like unto a rod, or a scepter, in order to govern oneself and govern others. L- a rod of government. A read of discretion, which is like a rod of government. It's like a rod. A rod, obviously, is strictness and stiffness, but it's a reed... The reed is supple. In other words, it's going to be a- a new kind of government, if you like, a Christian kind of government, which is more merciful and understanding than many a government has ever, mor- than most governments have been. Supple as a reed, but like a scepter for governing oneself and governing others. "Arise and measure the temple of God." Arise means get up and practice yourself what you preach. And measure the temple of God, and the altar, and those adoring in it. "Measure the temple" is the Church. The Church. Take the measure of the ch- of the temple. The Church, as being made for men and not for angels, get the measurements of the Church right. Meaning, he's gonna write his fourth gospel. You're not writing for angels, you're writing for men. Now the Church is, the Catholic Church is- is going to be for men, not for angels. Some people forget that sometimes. Measure the temple. Uh, take- get the measurements right of the Church, which is going to be made for men and not for angels. And the altar. The altar is the humanity of Christ, or the human nature of Christ, meek and humble of heart. That seems to me that the chapter division between 10 and 11 is a little misleading, because the- the content flows on directly from chapter 10 to chapter 11. This is the angel instructing John. Uh, the altar and those adoring therein. Uh, the adorers are men as being fallible, weak, and infinitely diverse. Take the correct measure of the Church, take the correct measure of the humanity of Christ, and take the correct measure of men. They're weak, they're fallible, and they are infinitely varied. Um, "But the outer court, which is outside the temple, throw it outside and do not measure it, because it is given over to the Gentiles, and they will tread upon the holy city for 42 months." Verse 2. The outer court is- (beeping) the hardened sinners and heretics outside the Church. The hardened sinners and heretics outside the Church, who don't belong to the Church. Throw them out is excommunicate them. Excommunicate them and do not take their measure. And do not heed their false pleading. And do not heed their false pleading. We will carry on tomorrow.