You should probably will give the special conference also- also tonight. Um... (clears throat) (makes ticking noises) St. Hilary of Poitiers, what heresy did he resist, Lester? Do you know when- when he lived? About... Hands up those who know, who know that they know what heresy he resisted? (laughs) One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, well, it's not a mortal sin not to know. Hands up those who think they might know. Hands up those who know they don't know. (laughs) Oh, what humility. (laughs) Amorthurutia? I think it was the Arian Heresy. Yes, that's right. Arianism, yes. Uh, in the 300s he was one of the, he was a contemporary of Athanasius and he was one of the bishops that was fight- he was in France, Bishop of Poitiers. And, uh, he was fighting alongside, um, Athanasius against the Arian Heresy. He wrote 14 books about the Holy Trinity. Uh, then book is not as long as it is today, but, uh, and the breviary today quotes Saint Jerome saying that he writes to somebody that, "She can walk with safe foot through all the works of Hilary." That's to say that she needn't be afraid of, ah, contamination by heresy. Um, (clears throat) the Arian Heresy was an extraordinary affair. Unfortunately, I don't know much about it. I'd like to know a lot more because it's the closest parallel in Church history to what's going on today. Although what's going on today in Germany they say, "(German)" Uh, what's going on today goes a lot further than, um, uh, the Arian Heresy. Uh, but at the height of the Arian Heresy you had the pope, Pope Liberius, and I think it was in 369 excommunicating, uh, Athanasius and you've got in Denzinger-Schonmetzer the text of the letters- (coughs) ... of Pope Liberius to the Bishops of the East saying, "Come on guys, be nice to me, I've excommunicated him!" Now why would Denzinger-Schonmetzer put that in? Portugal? Because they're very thorough. (laughs) (laughs) I- I doubt it. I mean they are, that's not, that's- that's- that's perfectly true. (laughs) I doubt that that truth is the reason. They are thorough, yes. Um, they really go, when they go for something they go for it. Uh, anybody see why Denzinger-Schonmetzer might have... The latest edition of Denzinger-Schonmetzer which... When is Denz- when does Denzinger-Schonmetzer date from? Jenkins? '76. '76, yes. Uh, that could easily be. Why would Schonmetzer... Denzinger ban, Denzinger goes ways back the, the, until recently the classic edition was called Denzinger-Banwart, uh, but, th- now all of us have in our hands Denzinger-Schonmetzer only the numbering of Denzinger-Banwart is also always given. Because you'll often get, if it's DB they're quoting the old numbering, but then they put in a lot more texts. Uh, Schonmetzer put in a lot more text. Schonmetzer, whoever he was with. Um, why would Schonmetzer put in... Oh, come on somebody. To show that the pope can err. Yeah, see that's it. Show the pope can be in error. That's why he would've put it in. Some people claim the letters are fraudulent but I very much doubt it, uh, because the truth is that in 369, uh, Liberius did excommunicate Athanasius. I didn't, but it didn't last for 40 years. When was that mess of pottage, when was that schmozzle cleared up? Anybody? No? How- who's done Church history for the first part, the first 400, 500 years of Church history? Hands up. Hands up. Hands up. Oh, all of you ought to know, right? (laughs) So I could ask any of you and you would know. Um, Purdy? When was this schmozzle cleared up? The Arian schmozzle? Biera, dig him out? The Council of Constantinople, 381. That's surely it. Second Council of Constantinople? Somebody? First. First is it? 381. 381, so 369 to 381, that's only 12 years. That's peanuts compared with us. (laughs) We've been, uh, sweating it out you know, we've been... Mother Church this time is, it's 40 years. It's an in- interestingly 40 years which is another reason to think that it won't last much longer. 40, 40 years from 1958 when John XXIII became pope, in 2002 they'll be commemorating the opening of Vatican II if the world's still, still around. Uh, Jenkins? Thee Council of Nicaea. It's true. The, uh, that's perfectly true. Absolutely true. It goes back to the Arianism began getting going after the Council of Nicaea which was 325. So if you count 325 to 381, well that's longer, yes. (laughs) That is actually longer. But it, it took a little while for Arianism really to get underway. It's true that the roots go back to- to coun- well, of course the Council of Nicaea was against Arianism wasn't it? But didn't Arius attend the council as a deacon? No, Athanasius attended the council as a deacon. When did Arius start- start his, publishing his heresy? He was in Alexandria wasn't he? Somebody? He was a priest.Okay. When did- did- it- it was- was Arianism really a problem before the Council of Nicea? I've got the impression that it- I've got the impression it was there, which is why the- Nicea nailed it, but it only really got going afterwards. That's my... but I don't, I'm, I'm not a historian and I don't pretend to know. Anybody sh- know one way or the other? Very in- uh, the whole thing is a very interesting question. There ought to be. Michael Davis, I think, has written a little book that... he's a good historian, uh, and he's, um, I think he's written a book about the- a- sin- Athanasius, he's written about certainly, which is almost certainly about the Arian heresy as well. That would be worth reading. So when, uh, this book finishes, somebody remember to, uh, remind me to, um, put- read, uh, Michael Davis on, on Athanasius because it would- it's not a lot, it's only a booklet. I'm sure it's well worth reading. Um, Hilary was then a defender of the true doctrine of the Holy Trinity, uh, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, absolutely equal, absolutely co-eternal, co- consubstantial, co-eternal, like in the creed of St. Athanasius. Um, who was the second great... who was sometimes called the second great bishop of Poitiers? Anybody know? Poitiers, the same time as sort of mid-nor- mid-northwestern France, over that kind of... that map's too small to be able to show you, but, um... Cardinal Pie? Cardinal Pie is right, yes. The great anti-liberal doctor, the great anti-liberal doctor of, uh, the l- second half of the 19th century. He began, he was a priest in about... he began, 1848 began writing, I'm not sure, but he was already writing by then, and then he was made Bishop of Poitiers, and as Bishop of Poitiers, he, he was one of the outstanding, uh, adversaries of 19th century liberalism, which was exactly the same liberalism as today, basically. It's mutated, it's mutated, but not significantly. The problem is much more the same than it is essentially different, deep down. When did Cardinal Pie die? Anybody? Anybody know? P-I-E, Cardinal Pie. Edmond, I think it was. Edmond Pie. Uh, anybody know? I think about 1880, 1882, somewhere around there. That's this, so he's... he would flourished, he flourished, (foreign language) as they say in Latin, he flourished about 1860, 1860, 1870 was his, was when he was, um, producing the... he shed a great deal of light. Um, who were the other great anti-liberals in France at the high point, the great raging time of liberalism? Louis Veuillot. Louis Veuillot, that's right. L-O-U-I-S and then V-E-U-I-L-L-O-T, Louis Veuillot. What wa- who was he and what was he? Uh, he was a journalist who, uh, edited, um, um, L'Univers. That's right, L'Univers, The Universe. Yes. Catholic paper in Paris. Um, I think it was a daily paper, and, um, Louis Veuillot, a great, a great... he converted. He, uh, he wasn't clear in his head. I forget what it was. I think he went down to Rome and then saw, obviously, the gift of God, saw what the whole thing was about, and then absolutely nailed the errors day by- I think day by day by day in the, uh, in L'Univers. Great man. Dr. Rao is a great fan of, uh, Louis Veuillot. L'Univers. Louis Veuillot. He was a layman, but he was also a friend, an acquaintance of another great anti-liberal combatant from France in the nine- in that same part of the 19th century, 1850 to 1880, let's say. When of course it was Pope Pius IX in, in Rome, same, same period of Pope Pius, Pope Pius IX, Dom Guéranger. Dom Guéranger was another great anti-liberal. And Louis Veuillot used to go to the monastery of Dom Guéranger at Salem and, and do retreats there, I think, or . Um, Louis Veuillot had enormous common sense, uh, or enormous good sense. Common sense is too natural. Enormous good sense, supernatural and natural. Uh, it's just sane, sane thinking. S- he's just a sane man. A completely, uh, German, German would say durchaus sannt, through and through sane, um, naturally and supernaturally. Of peasant stock or of working stock, but a prince of, uh, of, of the Church as far as fighting for the Church is concerned, but a layman. Like many laymen, many good laymen, he depended upon the priest. I don't think you'll find, I've- so you may have heard me say that before, I don't think you'll find in the history of the Church a layman who did great things for the Church without being guided by a priest. Now, the priest couldn't do what he did, the priest couldn't get into a newspaper office and w- and this- and the clatter and the bang and the noise and the distractions of it, that's not a priest's place, a newspaper office. But Louis Veuillot, uh, I'm sure, I, I don't know, I don't know enough, but I'm sure the influence of Dom Guéranger was decisive for Louis Veuillot. And for many a good layman, the- some priest is essential. Uh, that's the disaster of Dom Plinio at the head of TFP in Brazil. Dom Plinio was given by God a great priest on could he- on, on whom, on whom he could have leant- leaned, and by whom he could have let himself be guided, Bishop of Castromao. Uh, Bishop of Castromao was within s- Dom Plinio and TFP are based, I think, in Sao Paulo, St. Paul in Brazil, and, uh, Bishop of Castromao is a little way up the coast in, um, uh, Campos, when he was made bishop in Campos. And I think they made bishop in Campos, they could get him out of the way, I think, 'cause you know, it's a provincial city. They wanted to get him out of the way.But he was always accessible. I mean, th- there's a telephone and there's... and, and they were always in contact. And, um, uh, Bishop de Castromay only broke with, uh, with TFP in s- in 1983. There's some very interesting documents going to come out in the next, uh, i- issue of which is in French, and not many of you probably can read it. But, uh, about how Dog... uh, why Bishop Castro broke with Plinio. He knew him a long way back, and he supported TFP to begin with. Bishop de Castromay supported and guided, in so far as Plinio wanted to be guided, TFP right from early days because it was Catholic and it was anti-communist. But then Plinio... and Plinio started... Dr. Plinio Correa de, de Oliveira. Plinio started TFP back in, I think, the 1940s. Can you really tell me any different? 1940s, 1950s at the latest. A lay organization of combatant Catholics to resist the revolution. Sounds good. Uh, but... And that's... And, and they, they did a... they did s- valiant work to protect Brazil from communism by, um, nourishing Brazilian Catholics who could think and wanted to think with good doctrine to resist the communist lies. And... But the problem is that Plinio... This is all about TFP, which you may come across, you know. Um, uh, . Tradition, family, country. Uh, fra- uh, tradition, family, fatherland. Uh, the problem with Plinio is that he started in reaction aga-... He knew the clergy were no good. The clergy in the '40s and '50s were already, most of them, communist or semi-communist or communist in spirit. The clergy was already gone before Vatican II, in a certain manner of speaking, with, of course, always, and as usual, noble exceptions. But you couldn't go to a priest and rely on getting the proper answer. You'll get a sort of semi-leftist, semi-secular humanist, semi-worldly answer. So the cl- the clergy were going and Plinio knew it. Uh, so he started his own organization. It was going to be a lay organization. Ouch. Ouch. To start a lay organization because of the practical necessity of not re- leaning on the clergy is one thing, but to make a principle of not leaning on the clergy is quite another. And laicism is the implicit heresy of TFP. And TFP pulls a lot of young men who it makes, uh, live chastely without marrying. It pulls a lot of young men to, into its service and s- effectively stops them going to the priesthood. And TFP paralyzes and has always paralyzed vocations. Uh, it's a grave fault to pretend to defend the Catholic Church and then at the same time, to paralyze vocations doesn't make sense. Uh, Bishop de Castromay could at any... If Plinio had wanted to listen to Bishop de Castromay, God had placed Bishop de Castromay there and Plinio can't claim that he was abandoned by the clergy. He's not gonna... When Plinio went in front of his maker, which was about a year or two years ago, only quite recently, he won't have been able to say, "Lord God, you did not give me a priest to guide me." Because he did. The Lord God did give him. And there's absolutely no question that if anybody, at any time, wants to know the will of God, the will of God will be findable. There'll be somebody there who you can... and somebody who you can get to if you want. God will never leave souls without the possibility of reaching them. It's, it's intrinsically impossible. So, uh, Plinio did have a bishop to go to, and a good bishop. Uh, Bishop de Castromay. How many of you have read The Mouth of the Lion? You all ought to read it. The story of the, of the, of the... you... The Mouth of the Lion by Dr. White. Uh, it's very readable. It reads like a detective novel. You can pick it up and, and you could... You'll be up until 3 o'clock in the morning, 4 o'clock in the morning just reading it because it's so easy to read. It's easy to read and enjoyable to read. That's what the doctor, that's what the doctor meant it to be. Could've written it in many ways. He wrote it in a way to make it easy to read. And it is easy to read, and it's interesting to read. So read it because it's not a heavy work, and it's very interesting. And, uh, it's... Uh, the au- the, the doctor describes how, uh, Bishop de Castromay earthquake-proofed his diocese. Bishop de Castromay was, was, uh, was smart in the good s- in the best sense, and he could see what was coming. He knew this new Catholicism. He knew it inside out, this false Catholicism, the new theology. He knew it inside out. Um, he's wr- he wrote a marvelous catechism of the era, of the new errors, which goes by, uh, goes through these errors one after... and exactly the same errors as today. Goes through all of the Vatican II errors, before Vatican II, and lays out the error, and then it lays out what's true and what's false. Or, it, it, or, or it just lays out the error and then distinguishes, uh, d- distinguishes the error. Um, I f- How many... Does anybody know that book? The, the, the Bishop de Castromay's Catechism of the Modern Errors? It's excellent. Abso- it's excellent. That's another book that should be read, uh, um. Put down in a notebook, somebody. That's another book that should be read at midday. Uh, in any case, Bishop de Castromay, th- th- the... Dr. White's expression is he earthquake-proofed his diocese. In other words, Bishop de Castromay sensed, if you like, that an earthquake was coming. Or, or whether or not he sensed that an earthquake was coming, in any case, he knew that the people needed doctrine in order to stay Catholic. And he, he set up, in his little diocese... It's a little diocese but glorious by its, uh, fidelity. He set up a whole mechanism of si- simply teachers of catechism, a s- a catechism system whereby all the people got to know their doctrine, and the real doctrine, so that when Vatican II came...He gave to all of his priests the option, they could either say the new mass or they could stay with the old mass if they wanted. He, as a bishop, would cover them if they wanted to stay with the old mass. Most of his priests stayed with the old mass. A few left him, but most of them stayed with the old mass and those that stayed with him and stayed with the old mass are those that, of course, formed the, what's still today, the, uh, group of priests that's saying the old mass in that diocese. But, uh, we, we got on to Bishop de Castromay. Uh, Bishop Castromay was there, um, a great bishop. Um, not according to the world because, you know, who knows about Campos and so on and so on? But though it was brought out, uh, events brought out what a great man he was. Uh, (clears throat) he... For instance, when the, uh, consecrations took place in 1988, consecrations of, of, by Archbishop Lefebvre, Bishop de Castromay stepped forward of his own will. He was an old and frail man and he wasn't far from death. He died in 1991, ve- with... Uh, months after the archbishop... 1991, yes, he died, uh, 1991. Uh, he stepped forward of his own accord in order to make the journey all the way to Europe in order to co-consecrate and he made a wonderful little, uh... gave a wonderful little sermon at the ceremony of the consecrations. It's not very long, but it's packed with mate- uh, packed with matter. And he said, "It's a... For me, it's a duty of conscience to be here to, um, to support Archbishop Lefebvre or to, to back him. To do the same thing as he's doing because it's a, it's a question of, um, professing the faith." Uh, the, the faith is at stake in front of the whole world. And so, um, that action alone is the action of a great, of a great bishop. So, Bishop de Castromay was a great bishop because primarily, he was a doctrinal bishop. He's... He knew his doctrines through and through. He wa- he wa- had taught in the seminary and was... He used to come in... Aparren- he used to come into s- the, the, the lessons he gave in the seminary, he would come in without any notes. He would have it all in his head and then he would teach dogma purely out of his head without looking at any notes. So, um, very humble, about knee-high to an apple. Uh, you'd never notice him in a crowd, you know what I mean? He's, uh, just, you know... Uh, uh, humanly speaking, insignificant. And, you know, um, I can remember once down in Larreche in the Argentinean scene just walking up and down the little cloist, one of the qui- quietly praying his rosary, you know. Just looking like any little peasant, you know, any little... Praying his rosary, there he was. Um, very humble but, oh gosh. Uh, in any case, um, (clears throat) he, he was there, uh, to... available for Plinio, but Plinio (breathes deeply), uh, wanted to go his way, and so TFP became a cult, and it bec- it become, became a cult. Dr. White wrote... There's a first version of the chapter on TFP. There's a chapter on TFP in The Mouth of the Lion. The first version of the chapter was (clears throat) quite lively, but then somebody threatened, somebody skillfully threatened the doctor with a lawsuit or something (metal clanking) if that chapter appeared so the, the doctor modified it somewhat. But the original chapter was a lot more provocative than the present chapter. Uh, in any case (thumps table), uh, Plinio went wrong and he got into an absurd, a ridiculous cult of his own personality, a blasphemous cult of his own personality by the end. It, this m- is mostly hidden from most of the people in TFP, uh, and TFP vigorously and rigorously (person coughs) de- denies any such thing. But facts are facts, and it's, it's known for absolutely certain that in the inner circles of TFP it is a dangerous and absurd cult. And, uh, it's a great shame because Plinio was a great mind and he was a great, um, anti-liberal and a great anti-revolutionary. His book, Revolution and Counter-Revolution is a very good book. I've never read it, but I know that it's good. Everybody says so. It is, uh... He was a great ant- counter- anti-revolutionary. But, um, he slid from an understandable practice into a false principle, the understandable practice of avoiding the clergy into the false principle of, uh, refusing the clergy in principle, and that's a no-no. Uh, the real answer was, of course, um, Archbishop Lefebvre who s- who re- (person coughs) who's confronted with the same problem, false clergy, and the proper answer is to, "Well, we'll start again. We'll remake good clergy." And that's the answer. You might say, "Well, a layman can't do that." True. True. As a layman, no layman could have done what the archbishop did, but the layman could at least have abstained from building an organization around the principle that we don't need the clergy, we don't need vocations, the clergy are bound to be wrong. But it's an understandable error insofar as so many of the clergy were so far wrong in the '40s and '50s when Plinio was working out how to try to defend the Church. But you can't... Uh, uh, one of the, one of the documents that will appear of Bishop de Castromay, they're very interesting. I've, I haven't got them with me any longer, but, um, uh, they'll come back in the, in the edition. Um, one of the documents is Bishop de Castromay attacks this heresy of laicism. He says it's heresy because it's of faith that our Lord founded the Church on, on this clergy. Obviously, our Lord took into account the fact the clergy are human, the clergy always make mistakes. But that's why Catholics are, always have to be making the distinction between that which is human in the Church and that which is divine. Our Lord Himself is human and divine. His Church is human and divine.Now, the human part of our Lord was never in sin and never in error. That's a slight difference with the church. But the human part of the church is often in sin and often in error. But that doesn't touch the principles of the church and the teaching of our Lord. Heaven and Earth will pass away, but not one jot or tittle, today's Gospel, the Gospel of the church doctor, Dr. Hilary. Um, today's Gospel, uh, not one jot or tittle of the law will pass away. What's it, no, what's it, somebody? Not one jot or tittle of... until all, uh... oof. Sorry? My Lord? Yes, and, uh, not one jot or tittle, um... Choo-choo-choo-choo. It's the Sermon on the Mount. "Think not that I came to, uh, destroy the law, I came to fulfill the law." Uh, the s- Matthew 5, 6, or 7. 5:18. Uh, that's it. Well done. "Do not think that I'm come to destroy the Law or the Prophets; I'm not come to destroy but to fulfill. For ah, amen I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall not pass of the Law till all be fulfilled." So that's even the old laws as well. You know, that's the, that part of the law which doesn't... I mean, the, the ceremony of the law passed, but all of the moral part of the law, uh, is, uh, every jot and tittle is still there. So, um, why, how do we get on? Now, uh... Y- yes. Our Lord's... The way our Lord built the church cannot change, and it can't change and it can't fail. It can't fail completely and absolutely. Obviously, the Catholic Church has, has failed over a large part of the Earth in Arianism and today in, in neo-modernism. But it's impossible that the church should completely defect. The indefectibility of the church does not mean that the Pope cannot go gravely wrong, because this poor pope has gone, these last popes have gone gravely wrong. What the indefectibility of the church means is that even if the Pope goes gravely wrong, s- still the church is built on him as upon a rock. The Pope, th- there's no... The Catholic Church without a pope is inconceivable. And secondly, some other doctor like Athanasius and Hilary will be maintaining the doctrine while the popes, uh, go wrong. Uh, so the, the th- the, Athanasius was like... Athanasius and Hilary and any others like them, there were a few others, were like the carriers, the temporary carriers of the church's indefectibility. The normal carrier of the church's indefectibility is the Pope. But he's not the indispensable carrier. He, the Pope can go very wrong. And if you say, if you exaggerate how, how much the Pope, if you exaggerate the degree to which the Pope can't go wrong, you're bound to become either a Liberal or a Sedevacantist. And the two are much closer to one another than either is to a Catholic. The Liberal is far from a Catholic. A, a Sa- the Sedevacantist is closer to the Catholic than the Liberal is. Sedevacantism is not the worst sin in the book. Why? Often... A Sedevacantist is closer to a Catholic than a Liberal is, but both of them are closer to one another than either is to a Catholic, I would venture to say. The good S- uh, here's a Catholic. Let's see. There's a Liberal. That's the pits. (laughs) A Sedi- Well, I've said he's closer to a Liberal than he is to a Catholic, so we're gonna have to draw a circle from around the Liberals. So the Sedevac is gonna be somewhere around here. Or he's somewhere on this circle. The, the better Sedevacs are about there, but they're still, um... I said they're closer to a Liberal. The better ones are, uh, the better ones are getting closer to being, closer to the Catholic than the Liberal. But the, the worst ones are closer to Liberal than they are to a Catholic. Those are the moderate Sedevaca- -vacs, and those are the rabid Sedevacs. The Sedevacs, rabid. (laughs) And moderate. Yeah, ah, you laugh, but just you wait. You'll meet them. (laughs) The moderate ones keep quiet about it. The, the rabid ones are like Pheneites. It's their dogma of faith. If you don't think that these popes are not popes, then you aren't Catholic. If you think that there's such a thing as a baptism of, of desire, you're not Catholic. That's, and this, the one thing necessary to be a Catholic. Crazy. But, um, why are Sedevacs better than Liberals? They're still not fully Catholic. Though, you know, I mean, they, they, the better ones are sort of on their way, or on their way down or on their way up, but, uh, but between Liberalism and Catholicism, there's a great gulf fixed. Why are Sedevacantists closer? Very simple. Because the better Sedevacantists and at least the better ones ? Don't have the faith? Yeah, absolutely. If they didn't have the faith, there'd be no problem with the, with the Pope being off his head. For them, it's a real problem because they believe in the papacy, so they believe in the church, they believe in our Lord. They do have the faith. Sedevacantists do have the faith. That's why Sedevacantism is not the worst sin in the book. But it's a trap. It's the opposite trap. It's the right-hand trap as opposed to the left-hand trap. It's the right-hand sand trap. On a golf course, you've got sand traps on both sides of the fairway. So you've got sand traps on the left side of the fairway, and that's every time you hook it, of course. And usually, you know, you, you, if you don't hit it straight, you'll hook it. So off you sail into the left. On the other hand, you can slice it and then it sails off to the right. And if you slice it, you've got the Sedevacantism. So, um... Uh, but most golfers hook rather than slice, to my best knowledge. And therefore, uh- (laughs) Liberalism is a much more common error than Sedevacantism. So, um, all right. Well, that's all, uh, St. Hilary. So, uh-Turn back to the Apocalypse, which is- we are now- we are in the, one of the (object falling) most famous parts of the Apocalypse, and one of direct application to today. Uh, so the dragon pursuing the woman. Uh, we were- saw yesterday verse 14, I think we were, about verse 14. Two wings, wisdom to unravel heresies and patience to endure the persecution of heresies by fleeing to the desert, verse 6. Two wings, wisdom and patience. Wisdom and patience, two wings today. To endure the persecution of heresies by fleeing to the desert, verse 6. In order to be nourished in the desert for the duration of the persecution, verse 6. Remember, the church hides inside souls and souls hide inside, hide with God. What you see today. The church is disappearing from the structures, the outside structures. It's taking refuge inside souls, exactly what's happening today. Cardinal Mindsenti, uh, the communists take over his episcopal palace. The church is still in Cardinal Mindsenti's soul inside the prison, um, inside the communist prison. Uh, then the two wings, wisdom and patience, to endure persecution and to, uh, be nourished in the desert during the persecution. Uh, verse 14, um, "And they were given to the woman two wings of an- of a great eagle in order to fly to the desert to a- hi- her place where she is fed for a time and for times and for half a time." Time equals one year, so three and a half times equals 1,260 days. Time is one year, so three and a half times is- is three and a half years, 1,260 days, the duration of the persecution, the Anti-Christ standing for any persecution. We've seen that. "And the serpent let- sent out of his mouth after the woman water like a flood to make her be swept away by the river." Wa- water like a river in order to get her swept away by the river. Uh, the water i- is a flood, th- this time not of living water but of false doctrine. These are not living waters; these are dead waters. A f- a flood of false doctrine to sweep souls away from mother church. You see that today. I mean, gosh, a flood of false doctrine. These media, ugh, oh. A flood of false doctrine to sweep away the woman and her child- her children, so a flood of doctrine to wash souls out of the church, a flood of false doctrine to wash souls out of the church. In the moral sense, souls... Sorry, what I've- I've said holy souls, but that doesn't mean to say souls in purgatory. The third sense is not souls in purgatory, but saintly souls, I should have said. Saintly souls, um, yearning for heaven, you may remember. S- in the third sense, the- the- this- the saintly souls under persecution engender Christ, so we're in three. One, two, three, four, we're back to three. Three, verse 15, the devil lets loose a flood to sweep away souls and to sweep away the church. The souls under persecution, saintly souls under persecution, engender Christ, give birth to Christ. Saintly souls, when persecuted, become more Christian instead of less, become closer to Christ instead of further away. Uh, the saintly soul flies with devotion and patience to contemplation. The dragon pursues the saintly soul, which brings forth a male, ver- 13, verse- version three, so to speak, which brings forth a male. That's Christ. The saintly soul under persecution brings forth Christ. Verse 14, the saintly soul pursued by the devil, uh, has two wings, devotion... it flies with devotion and patience, it flies with devotion and patience to the desert of contemplation. So the two wings are devotion and patience. The desert for the saintly soul, explanation three, is contemplation.... memory with verse 6. The church in persecution takes refuge inside souls. Souls, that's the ex- explanation one. Explanation three, souls under temptation flee the world in order to hide with God. Similarly here, the church has, explanation one, uh, two wings of wisdom and patience to endure the persecution. Explanation three, the saintly soul has two wings of devotion and patience to flee to the desert of contemplation, where the Devil sends after it a flood of... And the soul, the saintly soul flees to contemplation. Does Devi- does, th- the Devil lets loose after it a flood of... Yes. Of sensual memories. Of sensual memories. Any body the example of Benedict, St. Benedict? His feast is coming up, March the 21st. St. Benedict fled Rome and fled the world in order to, into the, into the mountains near Subiaco and then... and lived in a cave, uh, for three years. And during that time, he was once tempted, and anybody? Some of you were in Subiaco, weren't you at ? He jumped into a rose bush. Jumped into a rose bush, which has... Thorns. Uh, has thorns, correct. Well, what, what, what happened? I think there was a rose bush, but I think it was thorn bush. Thorn bush, and then began growing roses, I think. I think he actually, uh, uh, grafted it from the, from . So, you know, that's the, the- Uh, yeah. There's some miracle associated with it, yes. Uh, in any case, he threw himself into a thorn bush, and from then on was completely free of sensual temptation. But it's obvious that the Devil was sending memories of Rome after him, memories of what he'd seen in Rome. And in order to overcome it, he jumped into a thorn bush, and he was freed from then onwards. So, um, so that's an example of what it is here. The Devil sends after the, af- when the soul flees into contemplation to get away from persecution, the Devil sends after it a flood of sensual memories to sweep it away. Uh, verse 16. I'm sorry that's not been entirely clear, but, uh, but if you go back, I thought... I have in my notes here, one, the woman is the church, two, the woman is the Blessed Virgin Mary, three, the woman is holy souls. But that doesn't mean to say souls in purgatory, it means saintly souls. It's a moral sense. Uh, the woman of the, uh, and, and the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the church are ali- are, the allegorical sense, the soul is the moral sense. So whenever you have explanation three coming up, came up, that was am- the moral sense of the soul. Um, verse 16, "And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened up its mouth and absorbed the flood, which the Devil sent out from its mouth." The earth, explanation one, is the secular princes who, after Constantine, helped the church cleaned up the heresies. They helped, finally the emperors helped to clean up the heresies with the secular arm. So the earth, in the allegorical sense of the church, means the secular princes who, after Constantine, helped the church. And the earth opened its mouth. The mouth is the bishops, like at the Council of Nicaea, who swallowed up heresy. The mouth that the earth opens up, if you take the explanation of the woman equaling the church, the mouth, the, what, the, the flood that the Devil lets loose after the church's heresy, and the mouth that the oath open, earth opens up, the earth is the secular princes, and the mouth that the earth opens up is the bishops, the s- the good bishops to swallow up the heresy and refute it, like Athanasius and . And it absorbed the flood which the Devil sent out of its mouth. And the Devil was furious at the woman, and he went away to make war with the rest upon her seed, upon those who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. Um, the dragon makes war on the remainder of Christians. Those who have not fled to the desert, those who have not fled to contemplation, those who have not vigorously reacted. The Devil made war, makes war upon the rest of Christians. Because it says, "The rest of her seed." Uh, well, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. Yeah. He makes war. He doesn't make war on fallen Christians because those belong to him. The wa- the Devil has peace with fallen Christians. But those who are still Christians, the Devil made war. The, the Devil was furious with the woman, with the church, and he made war upon all the other Christians of her seed who keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus Christ. And he stood upon the sand of the sea.The sand is men enslaved to the world. The sand is here, men enslaved to the world, who are as light as sand and as unstable as the sea. Men enslaved to the world who are as light as sand and as unstable as the sea. Upon such men, the devil stands. I, he dominates them. You have the expression stairs of sand. What does that mean? Hold it. Stairs of sand. What do you think it means? (Inaudible). Yeah, stairs that are no good at all. Yes, you- you can make certain things out of sand, but you certainly can't make stairs out of them, stairs out of it. Uh... As light as sand, as unstable as the sea, such men, the devil dominates. Any questions on chapter 12? We've got four levels of explanation, and then that- and that doesn't exclude the possibility of there being other applications. Yes? In verse four? Yes. Would the third part (...) referring to the fallen angels? Um, yes, that might, I think it might. Yes. That's if you're thinking of the fourth level of explanation, Lucifer against Michael. I would think so, yes. I would think so. It could, it could be. The chapter 13 is, we won't start now, is the two beasts, the dragon and the two beasts. And the first beast, and it's very, very much a- applied to today. We've already had, which chapter was the locust neomodernists? Was that chapter 10? Anyone remember? The locust neomodernists. Nine? Chapter nine. Uh, that very much applied to today, the portrait of the neo-modernist. This chapter 13 also very much applies today. Lucia Fatima said that chapters, the third secret she said some... No, Cardinal Ratzinger, I think, one or the other, I forget which, slight difference, but, uh... (laughs) ... one or the other said that the Third Secret of Fatima overlaps chapters 8 to 13 of the Apocalypse, I think. Lucy. Lucy said that. Okay. There you are. Lucy, yes. Lucy, I think that's right. Lucy said that, uh... Cardinal Ratzinger said something like, "It's all in scripture," which is a nice way of getting out of it. But Lucy, Sister Lucy said, so 8 to 13, do you remember? Yeah. 8 to 13. I think that's right. Uh, so it's these very chapters, what's going on today. Um, 13 is the, the two beasts. Uh, the f- the, um, first is a wild beast and then the second is... The first beast is the Antichrist, and the second beast is a false lamb. Who would that be? A false lamb. Summers? No, the first, the- the dragon is the anti... The first beast is the Antichrist. What false lamb is of great assistance to the Antichrist? Lester? Pope Francis. He's a genuine skunk. (laughs) He's not a false lamb. The false church. The false church. That's why it much applies to today.