... (coughs) Chapter 11. Uh, "And it was given me a reed like unto a rod and it was said to me, 'Arise, measure the temple of God and the altar and them that adore therein. But the court which is without the temple cast out and measure it not because it is given unto the gentiles and the holy city they shall tread under foot two and 40 months. And I will give unto my two witnesses and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days clothed in sackcloth." This is the time of the Antichrist himself. Um, uh, verse 2, "The court, the outer court, is the hardened sinners and heretics outside the church. Throw them out is excommunicate them. Pay no attention to their false pleading." "Do not measure it," uh, "But the court which is without the temple, cast out and measure it not. Measure it not, pay no attention. Pay no attention to their false pleading." "Because it is given over, uh, it is given unto the gentiles and the holy city, they shall tread under foot two and 40 months." Um, false Christians will join the enemy in time of, in the time of trial. (coughs) They hand it over to the gentiles, the pagans. These people who are supposedly inside the temple, as I say, the, the outer courtyard, which is part of the temple, is handed over to the gentiles. That is to say that the false Christians are part of the enemy. The false Christians are part of the enemy in the time of trial. "And they will trample upon the holy city for 42 months." For t- uh, th- they will trample on the church for the duration of the reign of the Antichrist. The re- Antichrist is gonna reign three and a half years, which is 42 months. They will trample upon the city for 42 months, the reign of the Antichrist. The false Christians and the heretics and the false Christians will join forces to trample upon the city, to trample upon the holy church. "And I will give to my two witnesses..." Uh, the holy city. "I will give," verse 3, uh, "And I will give unto my two witnesses." Yes, that's what it says in Latin. Oh, "I will give," understand the holy city, it's been given to the gentiles to trample upon, but it's also been given, verse 3, "to the, to my two holy witnesses, to my two witnesses." So God will give the church also to his two witnesses or he will give two witnesses to his church. In this tremendous time of trial under the Antichrist, God will give two witnesses to his church (thumps table) and they will prophesy for 2,600 days, uh, s- sorry, two, uh, sorry, 1,260 days. That's the same period of time, 42 months, 1,260 days. Uh, thus clothed in sackcloth. So they will prophesy for the dure- the, the reign of the Antichrist clothed in penance, clothed in sackcloth. Renunciation was the word for it yesterday. "They shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days clothed in sackcloth." Um, "God will give to his church," in this unparalleled trial, "two witnesses." Tradition says... Tradition takes this literally. Catholic tradition takes this literally. Tradition says one of them will be Elias, Malachi verse f- chapter 4 verse 5. In Protestant terms, Elijah. One of them will be Elias, Malachi 4 verse 5. You remember they asked our Lord if he was Elias. Um, Malachi, Malachi 4 verse 5, "Behold I will send you Elias the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord." That's very clear. Uh, Matthew 17 verse 10.Mark 9, verse 10, Luke 1, verse 17, all concern the return of Elias. So tradition says that one of these two witnesses will be Elias, who is presently in a quasi-Eden, a quasi-garden para-... a quasi-paradise garden. The original paradise garden was shut, excluded. Men were excluded from it with Adam. The children of men stood at the gates with a flaming sword. But this, this is like a paradise garden says Saint Gregory. Matthew 17, verse 11, "Jesus answering said to them, 'Elias indeed shall come and restore all things." So Malachi 4:5 and Matthew 17:11, and the other quotations concerning the return of Elias. I remember the arch- Archbishop Lefebvre saying at one stage, "When is Elias coming?" He was, uh, anxious for Elias to put in an appearance because, you know, he said, "When are all things gonna be... when are things going to be restored?" Because of course, all the way up until the archbishop died, they were still disintegrating, and uh, some people think that they've been disintegrating ever since, too, since 1991. Uh, so the archbishop was impatient for Elias to appear and restore all things. Notice that expression by the Lord, "Elias will come." And, "Elias indeed shall come and restore all things." So, it's an interesting prophecy. It's our Lord himself speaking, so... Uh, so, uh, tradition says that one of these two witnesses is Elias, 'cause of course he didn't die when he, he departed from Elisha in a chariot of fire as he saw him disappearing. But he did... Elisha, nobody, uh, Elisha was only, the only one there and no- and nobody ever saw Eli- Elias die. So, secondly, Enoch. Genesis 5:22. The other witness is a, is a, is, um, a Gentile. So you've got a Jew and a Gentile to preach in these, this terrible trial to the Jews and the Gentiles. Uh, oh, that looks wrong. Genesis, what did I say? Genesis 5, Verse 22. No, 22. Uh, "And Enoch walked with God. Enoch lived 65 years and begot Methuselah and Enoch walked with God and lived after he begot Methuselah 300 years and begot sons and daughters. And all the days of Enoch were 365 years. And he walked with God and was seen no more because God took him." He walked and was seen no more because God took him. It's suggestive of s- not necessarily being death. Ecclesiasticus 44, verse 16. Eccles 44, verse 16. As opposed to Ecclesiastes. "Enoch pleased God and was translated into paradise that he may give repentance to the nations." That's fairly clear. Ecclesiasticus 44, verse 16. "He pleased God, he was translated into paradise" means transferred. Transfero, transferi, transpere, translatum. Translated, translation, or transference. Transfer or translation, same Latin word. "He was translated into paradise that he may give repentance to the nations," that suggests exactly this. Elias will restore all things. Il- Enoch will give repence to the nations. The two of them will be the source of a great renewal in the church or a great counterattack of the church, or the, the last, the last gasp of the... like the last gasp of the church under the Antichrist. It won't be the very last gasp 'cause the church will still be there at the very end of the world, but, um, under the Antichrist, in an unparalleled distress, the church will have unparalleled support from these two great figures of its ancient past. Genesis 5:22 and Ecclesiasticus 44, verse 16, referring to Enoch. Verse 4, "These two are... These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks that stand before the Lord of the Earth. Olive trees full of the unction of the Holy Ghost, full of the oil of charity." Olive trees, olive oil. Olive, olive oil is a very rich oil. You can burn it in lamps or you can eat it with food. "Olive trees full of the unction of the Holy Ghost, full of the oil of charity. And two candlesticks, candlesticks holding up the truth of God to enlighten men." They're not candles, he says, but candlesticks. They hold up... They aren't the light, but they hold up the light, the light of God.... like bishops are meant to. We've seen bishops with candlesticks in chapter one. So here it's not necessarily two bishops, but it's the two witnesses. (coughs) Olive's full of unction, full of charity, full, holding up th- the light of God. In s- in the sight, standing in the sight of the Lord of the Earth, uh, in God's sight, meaning that they, they heed God's will and pay no attention to men. Pay no attention to worldly pressures. They, they pay attention to the will of God. They pay no attention to worldly pressures. Standing in the sight of the Lord of the Earth. Verse 5, "And if any man will hurt them, fire shall come out of their mouths and shall devour their enemies. And if any man hu- will hurt them, in this manner must he be slain." Uh, in English, uh, one moment, and, and... In English you've got, uh, it's, it's the same word. Uh, hurt and hurt. In Latin it's two different words, and . Um, (coughs) for purposes of pronunciation, let me point out to you second conjugation, , . Uh, third conjugation, , . That is actually short and that's long, . , . So, uh, that's a mistake you quite often make in reading. It's understandable. Latin, evening I... Or, or reading the, uh, extract from scripture in the, uh, uh, morning or the evening. Second conjugation, the infinitive is long and it's accented, . S- third conjugation the infinitive is short, , the, and the, and the accent is off the infinitive. Okay, so and . is second conjugation and is third conjugation. All right, um, those who wish to, uh, the difference is anyone who harms them will be confounded by the fire of their charity, and anyone who physically hurts them will be condemned to death. So, anyone who harms them will be confounded by the fire of their charity. If anyone hits them, punches them, slugs them, he will die the death (clears throat). Anyone physically hurting them will be condemned to death. So the two witnesses are going to, uh, enjoy the protection of God. Six, "These have power to shut heaven that it rain not in the days of their prophecy, and they have power over waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with all plagues as often as they will." By the way the two, the, uh, the two olive branches, the two candlesticks evokes Zachary. (coughs) Uh, Zachary chapter... Two... Chapter 4. Yeah, the vision of the two, of the golden candlesticks. Zachary Chapter 4, "And the angel that spoke and he came again, he waked me as a man that is waken out of his sleep and he said to me, 'What seest thou?' And I said, 'I have looked and behold a candlestick all of gold and its lamp upon the top of it, and there's seven lights there of, uh, upon it, and seven funnels for the lights that were upon the top thereof. And two olive trees over it, one upon the right side of the lamp and the other upon the left side.' What are these," I s- answered and said to the angel, "What are these things my Lord?" And the angel said, 'Don't you know?' I said, 'No.' He said, 'This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel. Not with an army nor by might but by my spirit,' saith the Lord of Hosts." Um, and I answered and said to him, "What were the two olive trees upon the right of the candlestick and the rest?" Um, he said to me, "Don't you know?" I said, "No." Verse 14, he said, "These are two sons of oil who stand before the Lord of the whole earth." Uh, and it's, um... Do, do, do, do, do, who are they? Uh, it's two, uh, great figures of the restoration, I think. I can't res- Jesus the high priest and Zerubbabel the prince, yes, it's church and state. Jesus the high priest, that's not Jesus the Messiah. Uh, but the two anointed ones of the Lord, the high priest and the prince, so it's two figures of church and state for the salvation of Israel. So there- there's an evocations, there's certainly a, an, a... In the prophet, chapter 4 of Zachary. An evocation, the two witnesses are a little like the two, the two figures, the two olive trees in Zachary. Uh, these will have the power of shutting heaven, lest it rain for the days of their prophecy, and they have the power of turning the waters, the power over the waters of turning them into blood.... and of shaking the earth with every, uh, um, torment. Um, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. "And strike the earth with all plagues as often as they will." Verse 6. Uh, either literally Elias and Enoch will control the rain and plagues. Compare 3 Kings 17:1 and Exodus 7 onwards. 3 Kings 17, that was Elias himself of whom James in his epistles speaks. Hold on. Um, the power of prayer. James is talking about the power of prayer. Elias had the power to shut the heavens and open them. Where is that? Um, it should be in the - ... Epistle of James. 5:17. 5:17. That's it. "Elias was a man fast and likeable unto us. And with prayer he prayed that it might not rain upon the earth, and it rained not for three years and six months." And the reference is to 3 Kings 17:1. That's it. So you've got 3 Kings 17:1, James 5:17 both refer to Elias' power to prevent rain. They, they will have the power of closing up the heaven lest it rain in the days of their prophecy. So it's either going to be a literal power to control the rain and the plagues. 3 Kings 17:1 is Elias stopping the rain. Exodus 7 is, of course, Moses bringing down the plagues upon the Egyptians. It's still in the middle of the State of Minnesota, what's called I think the Grasshopper Chapel. Has anybody been there? The Grasshopper Chapel? (laughs) Uh, there was a plague of grasshoppers, uh, in the, sometime in the 19th century, sometime in the last century, and the Catholics began praying and they may... I forget the story. They may have promised to build a chapel if the grasshoppers stopped. Um, and the grasshoppers stopped, so they built a chapel. It's still there, I do believe. I think that's the story. Has anyone, none of you ever heard that story? Here in Min- right here in Minnesota. None of you heard that story? We should ask someone who knows Minnesota well. I think it's there somewhere. Um, I don't know whether they made a pledge to build it, but in any case, they prayed and the... I mean, it's strange how the insects, these, those little creatures can get out of control. They, they're cyclical apparently in various, certain parts of the world. There are years when you have very few of them and then there's years when they just, for some reason, they multiply by the million, million, million. They're just everywhere. Uh, and they eat everything. And then on the roads it's dangerous because they make, when they all drop down dead on the road they make such a slush that it's like pouring oil all over the road. It's very dangerous. I've never had to, uh, drive in those conditions but I've heard about it, so. So, um, uh, either they're going to cause plagues literally or figuratively they will shut the mouths of heretics. They will shut the mouths of the heretics. Demonstra- and demonstrate the heretics' teaching to be bloody. Uh, or figuratively... I'm sorry. Ph- or figuratively, they will shut the heretics' mouths and show their teaching to be bloody 'cause the teaching of heretics ends up in blood. Luther is the classic example. Luther revolts in 1517. In 1525, you have the Peasants' Revolt which the prince is put down in blood. It's called the Peasants' Revolt of 1525. And to shake the land with all plagues as often as they wish. Uh, figuratively they will impress on men the plagues of God's chastisements. 7:7, "And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the abyss shall make war against them and shall overcome them and kill them." When the, when, when they have finished their testimony. The beast is the Antichrist, verse 7. Coming out of the abyss, coming out in his true colors, emerging in his true colors.... will make war upon them and conquer them and kill them. In, uh, the- the Antichrist, infuriated by the two witnesses' resistance will overwhelm them and kill them. Verse eight, "And their bodies shall lie in the streets of the great city which is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord also was crucified." Their bodies shall lie in the streets of Jerusalem. The great city is obviously Jerusalem. Their bodies will be paraded all over the streets of Jerusalem. Their bodies will be paraded all over the streets of Jerusalem, which at that point by its dumbness and blindness will be like Sodom. By its spiritual dumbness and blindness will be like Sodom. And which by its idolatry will be like Jeru- will be like, um, like Egypt. So Jerusalem is going to be again in bad shape. Despite the, obviously the witnesses will come to the help of the church, but Jerusalem will be exulting in the Antichrist. So, the... Jerusalem will be as dumb and blind, spiritually, as Sodom, and will be as idolatrous as, as Egypt. Jerusalem, where also their Lord was crucified. Verse nine, "And they of the tribes and peoples and tongues and nations shall see their bodies for three days and a half, and they shall not suffer their bodies to be laid in sepulchers." Um, and they shall see from the tribes and peoples and tongues and nations... In other words, the Antichrist has got a kind of universal reign like, like the Christ had. Three and a half days, the churches commented to say may be longer for everybody to be able to see. Three and a half days may again just be a, not literal figure but it's, it's a day and two days and half a day. That's what three and a half means. A day and two days and half a day. And it may be longer than, uh, 72 plus 12 is 84 hours. It may be longer than 84 hours for all of the people to be able to enjoy the sight of the two great witnesses of God struck down. They will not allow their bodies to be buried in sepulchers. It will be wanting to exult over their defeat. Once again, it's gonna look pretty bad for the church. Catholics are gonna be in a rough way at that point in time. There you are, verse 10. "And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them and make merry and shall send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt upon the earth." So the wicked people under the Antichrist are happy to have got rid of the two witnesses. Obviously the two witnesses have given the Catholics very necessary and very much needed support in that terrible moment, those terrible moments. But the people are exulting in the destruction of the two witnesses. Um, and those inhabiting the earth, the earthly men rejoice in the death of the two witnesses. Men of earth, men, materialistic men who have no thought of Heaven. Materialistic men rejoice. Where is it in St. Paul? Think therefore of things of Heaven, don't think of things of earth. For the Lord is, uh, a, what do you call that immediately, a chapter or capital of, capitulum of East- Eastertide. Um, anybody Latin? (Latin). Well done. That's it. (Latin) That's it. Well done, yes. Beginning of Colossians 3, that's right, yeah. Uh, that's what this is about. (Latin). "Sap the things of Heaven, savor the things of Heaven." (Latin). "Not the things of earth." So these are the people who are savoring the things of earth. We would call them today materialists. The people who are savoring the things of earth are delighted that the two witnesses are dead, who kept talking of the things of Heaven.Uh, "And those who inhabit the earth." Let's say the, those who sapientes terram, those who enjoy the earth, those who enjoy materialistic things, "will be rejoice over them and will exalt, and they will make presents to one another. Because the two prophets, uh, gave them a hard time, cruciaverunt eius, uh, who were living upon the earth." The two prophets were giving them a hard time, so that's exit the two pro- the two witnesses, rather. Exit the two witnesses. Some people want to say, of course, that Archbishop Lefebvre and Bishop de Castromay were the two witnesses. (sighs) That's a classic example of, you know, (sighs) ma- the pattern, maybe the pattern fits. Yes. Maybe the pattern fits, but it's certainly not limited to those two. Obviously not. Absolutely not. Even if it does apply to those two, even if you might fit the, the two bishops under this heading, even if you fit them into the pattern, the pattern is obviously much wider than just those two. I say obviously because everything indicates that it's a, it's a, it's a literal prophecy for the times of the Antichrist. That's certainly how the church commentators and Catholic tradition takes it. And there's other verses of scripture you can see so that's... Uh, "And after three and a half days, the spirit of life from God entered into them and they stood upon their feet and great fear fell upon those who saw them." Um, the two witnesses, verse 11, the two witnesses are resurrected. Notice it says, uh, "And after three days and a half, the spirit of life from God entered into them." Past tense. Verse 10 was in the future tense, "They that dwell shall rejoice and make merry, shall send gifts to one another." And then verse 11 is the past tense, switching from the future tense to the past tense. Holden, why? Any idea? Schmidt? Jenkins? (inaudible). Uh, it's, it's the divine point of view from which all time is present to God. So, uh, the, in the past tense to show that past and future are simultaneous in front of God. Past, uh, what is past and future to us is simultaneous before God. Before God, all time is present and open like a book. All time, which is past and present and future to us, is simultaneous before God. He could've said, "They will, the spirit of God will enter into them, they will stand up on their feet." But from God's point of view, it's, that future's like the past. So, "The spirit of God entered into them, they stood up on their feet, and a great fear." People are frightened rigid, or scared stiff if you like, that the two witnesses told the truth. The fact that they are resurrected, the fact that they're alive again makes all of those who persecuted them and killed them afraid that the two witnesses were telling the truth. They're absolutely scared of the hell that the two witnesses said was awaiting f- awaiting them. It must be a bit frustrating to take all the trouble to put somebody to death and then they come to life again. (laughs) Uh, "And they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them, 'Arise hither.' And they arose to heaven on a cloud and their enemies saw them." Arise hither, their mission is fulfilled, they go to heaven. The two witnesses' mission is fulfilled, they go to heaven. We're still not the end of the world. Verse 13, "And at that hour, there was made a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and there were slain in the earthquake names of men seven thousand, and the rest were cast into a fear, and gave glory to the God of heaven." Uh, the earthquake of verse 13 is literal. The earthquake is literal. Uh, then we have the tenth part. "And the tenth part of the city fell." S- souls in heaven fill nine ranks, left empty by the fallen angels. Into none of those nine ranks enters the tenth part of the city, who are then the souls damned.Souls in heaven fill nine ranks. Uh, who can recite the nine ranks in order? I can get the first two and the last two. (laughing) Ker- Kerubim and Seraphim, which is, which is first of those two? Seraphim. Seraphim. Seraphim and Kerubim, and then the last two are Archangels and Angels. In between you have Principali- uh, you have five, Principalities, Powers, Dominations, Virtues- Thrones. Thrones, yes. The order I'm, I couldn't give you. The list, where do you find that, the, that list? You don't find all nine in one place, but where above all do you find the, the middle ranks? (laughing) Our liturgist speaks. (laughing) Uh, where did those who wrote the liturgy maybe find it? (laughing) Yes? Ephesians 6:12. Yes. It, one is in Ephesians and the other is in... There are four of those middle five in Ephesians and another, a different four of the same five, those three, there are, there's, there's a triple overlap in Ephesians and Colossians. Colossians is also mention of, I think it's Colossians. Have you got a reference? Ephesians 6 and, is there a reference at the foot of the page to the other? I think it's Colossians. Ephesians 6:12. (coughs) No, that doesn't sound like it. That doesn't sound like it. Does the BAC not have it? Ephesians 5:3. Ephesians 5:3. That doesn't sound like it either. Oh, it's in a different epistle. Nobody got it? I can't remember. Ephesians 6, doesn't it, isn't it in the BAC? Ephesians 6, it would normally be. Uh, 1, Colossians 1:16. That sounds more likely. Yes, there you are. Thrones, Dominations, Principalities, Powers, Colossians 1:16. And you said Ephesians 6:12. That's j- No, that's not it, that's only Principalities and Powers. That, Ephesians 6:12 is not it. Ca- Uh, it's somewhere else. Uh, but I think it is Ephesians. Uh, what did you say? Ephesians 2 might be, but I don't think so. Ephesians 1:21. Yes, that's right. I think that's right. Yes, that's right. Principality and Power and Virtue and Dominion. Principalities, sorry, Ephesians 1:21 and Colossians, what did you just say? 1:16. 1:16, there you are. Colossians and Ephesians of, of, were, you may remember from last year, were written together. They're kind of twin epistles. They're quite different, but they are quasi-twin. They, they have affinities. They have such affinities to show that they, they were certainly written about the same time. Uh, Thrones, Dominations, Principalities, Powers, and Principalities, Powers, Virtues, and Dominions. Yeah. So that's, those are the five in the middle. It's in the Breviary for the Feast of either Saint Michael or the, or the Guardian Angels. That, that, the Church Father explains where the, the nine ranks come from in scripture. He says, "You find Kerubim and Seraphim in many places in the Old Testament. Angels and Archangels are everywhere. For the others, you've got these two lists in St. Paul, which make up the nine." So you've got nine ranks being filled by th- the souls of the saved. The 10th part is those who don't make it into any of the nine ranks. In other words, the souls of the damned. The souls in heaven fill nine ranks left empty by the fallen angels. Into none of those enters the 10th part of the holy city, who are therefore the souls damned. Of these damned souls, 7,000 representatives, servants of the Antichrist, perish here. So there are, in this earthquake, a little comparable to the earthquake after the death of our Lord, a little comparable. And many of the servants of the Antichrist die on the spot. The remainder were struck with fear, uh, the remainder are struck with fear... Uh, one moment. The remainder were cast into fear and gave glory to the God of heaven. So, those who weren't killed by the earthquake at least momentarily converted. They were filled with the fear of God. It's what's very much missing today is the fear of God.I think, dare I say, all of us could do with a good dose of it because... the power of God is very much forgotten today. People are filled with the power of men, the idea of all these tremendous machines and explosives and so on and so on, and atom bombs, and what will you. But the- that's absolute peanuts when com- compared with the power of God, that people have got no concept of the power of God, the frightening power of God. (audience member sneezes) May I remember, uh, l- l- e- wh- where, where do you go to see the power of God? Where do you go in Scripture to see the power of God? Frightening men out of their wits? Exodus. Yes, Exodus. Uh, turn back, turn to Exodus for a moment. "Oh, Moses, keep him away! Keep him away!" (laughs) They're shaking in their shoes. It's the thunder and lightning of somebody. It'll be around chapter 12, 13, 'cause he's, he's already scared them. I mean, he's- the plagues should have scared the Egyptians to pieces. Uh, the Egyptians maybe only finally got the message when they lost all their army and their Pharaoh in, in the Red Sea, or in the, in the water. But, um... it's- no, it's beyond 12. They- 19? Could be. Could be, could be, could be. Uh, there sh-... "The Lord coming in thunder and lightning to speak with Moses." That's it. Uh, "They stood at the bottom... 'When Moses had brought them forth to meet God from the place they came, they stood at the bottom of the mountain and all Mount Sinai was on a smoke." Oh? (laughs) Oh. "Because the Lord was come down upon it in fire and the smoke arose from it as out of a furnace and all the mount was terrible. And the sound of the trumpet grew by degrees louder and louder, was drawn out for a great length. Moses spoke and God answered him." Um, "Go down and charge the people..." uh, uh... (babbles) Um, "'But let not the priest and people pass the limits nor come out to Lord, lest he kill them.' And Moses went a- and told them all." But the people actually say, uh- uh, there we are. Ver- chapter 20, verse 19. "And all the people saw the voices, and the flames, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mount smoking, and being terrified and struck with fear, they stood afar off saying to Moses, 'Speak now to us and we will hear. Let not the Lord speak to us, lest we die.'" (laughs) "And Moses said to the people, 'Fear not, for God has come to prove you.'" And so on. "And the people stood afar off." They're scared. (laughs) Ah, any of us would have been. Ah. When the Lord God been- has been shaking mountains, you know what I mean? It's, ah. We need th- that- the world today needs that. Oh, man, does it need it? But in his infinite wisdom, God is abstaining from manifestations of his power, but he's going to show his power again, sometime, somehow, someway. I don't know how it might work, but it's gonna be frightening when he does.