(sighs) (pen scribbles) Chapter 16. Um... Any questions on chapter 15? We covered it maybe a little fast. Um... (sighs) (pen scribbles) We've gone over it again a little swiftly. Uh, 15 acts as an introduction to the vision of the seven cups, which is chapter 16. 15 presents the preachers of God's justice, firstly those who escape it, secondly, and thirdly, those who fall victim to God's justice. Uh, one. Verse one. "I saw another sign, a great and wondrous sign in heaven. Seven angels having s- this, plagues, seven plagues, the seven last plagues." The seven latest plagues. Because in those will, the wrath of God is fulfilled, and that suggests that it is particularly applying to the last times. Uh, seven angels, the totality of the preachers of gospel, the gospel in all ages. Um, angel again in Greek, an announcer, a messenger. Um, Evangelion, the good message, in Greek. It's a Latin, the Latins have taken up the Greek word. U-V is, E-V is good, and angelion is announcement or message, so evangelo or gospel means a good message. Uh, seven plagues, the loss of God, the, uh, the most fire, coal, darkness, stench, trumpet of devils. Last, fulfilling God's wrath. First two, how do we escape? By leading a Christian life, which divides into three, the beginners, those who are making progress, and those who are perfect. The C stands for the baptism. Compare the Red Sea, making the soul tr- translucent as glass. The glass represents the soul cleansed of original sin and lit from within by the fire of the Holy Ghost. Standing means baptized Christians who are scorning the Antichrist, standing up to the Antichrist by virtue of their baptism. Harps are their means of multiplication, of making progress in the Christian life. Verse three, you have the third category, the perfect Christians who are singing, always giving thanks to God. Uh, from the Old Testament, these perfect Christians come from the Old Testament and the New Testament, Moses and the Lamb, for all his works are wise. He is to be feared but glorified, for he alone is merciful, verse four. Verse five, the tabernacle of the testament is the temporary dwelling on Earth of those testifying to the truth, in other words, the Church. The temple of the tabernacle of the testament is the humanity of Christ which is closed, which was closed like the Old Testament temple, until Christ came (chair creaks) and by his coming revealed the divine mystery. It's, uh, in heaven, shining brilliantly for all who look upwards, above earthly concerns. Uh, there came forth seven angels. The apostles depart from the temple as standing for the old law. They depart from the old law, uh, they come out of the old door, holding the seven plagues, announcing penance and judgment. Linen, their souls are brilliant with the fire, the freshness of grace. Their breasts are bound with the golden law of charity, of Christ's law of charity. And one of the four animals gave to the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, living forever and ever. One of the four animals... The animals, the animals are the four evangelists. One of them stands for the unanimity of their teachings. In other words, tradition. The vials of gold is hearts full of true charity. Teach, and therefore teach in the wrath of God, it is charity to teach the truth about heaven and hell. It's the very opposite of charity to preach that hell doesn't exist or nobody goes there. How many of you have seen or read The Threshold of Hope by John Paul II? Because there's a terrible chapter in there about the last things, the last things, in which he s- suggests without saying that, you know, that doctrines are outdated or that the Ch- Vatican II has updated hell. It's, it really is what he suggests. We've got a new doctrine of the last things. There's no longer the individual going in front of the judgment seat of God, which of course arouse, uh, uh, created an inspiring style of preaching in times gone by. But now with the Church, the Vatican II lays emphasis rather on the Church, so that the individuals and his appalling dest- appalling moment of judgment is, is, is sort of swamped in the Church, how the Church is judged. But it's, you know, that, well, it's love, love, love, of course, so. Can you go over that? The Catholic... (smacks lips) Yeah, I think so, yes. He, he says things like that. That's the style. That's c- if he doesn't actually say that, s- the style is going to be similar. Terrible. Terrible. That's why he's got that sort of, I call it goofy expression on his face, because he's sort of, he's, he's living in this dreamland whereby nobody goes to hell.Michael Matt has a good article in the latest Remnant on him, on his visit to the United States recently. So he visited the United States, he was in St. Louis. And, um, he says, amongst other things, the saddest face he's ever seen. The Pope's is the saddest face that Michael Matt has ever seen, because he's, he... The Pope makes him think of somebody, a dreamer, going all over the place looking for somewhere where his dream has succeeded. I'm afraid that's about it. It's not a bad article. Um, Michael Matt is writing some good, good things in the Remnant. He's, um, good. So, he's getting stronger, definitely. He's getting... The Remnant is moving in the right direction under his guidance. His father, uh, Walter Matt, I think the son is a better man than his father. At least so showing at present. Uh, full of the wrath of God, of the God living forever and ever. Um, teaching the, full of virus for us, they're teaching the anger of God so that men will escape from hell. But, uh, in fate of Mr. Murphy, the temple was filled with smoke from the Majesty of God and from his strength, and nobody could enter into the temple un- until these seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled. The, the refusal of Christ by the Jews meant that Judaism filled with smoke and almost no Jews entered the church until the end of her preaching, until the end of the church's preaching. In other words, the end of the world. And that's, you know, the, the extraordinarily distant, the chosen people. Wow. The, they're, the Jews are still chosen in the sense that as Roman says, "God's gifts are without recall," and the Jews retain many of those extraordinary gifts that God gave them. They still have those gifts, which is why they're so powerful in the media and politics, they take over everything if they're allowed to. Everything they want to take over, they take over if there, if the Gentiles are foolish enough to allow them. But, uh, in the real sense, the, their choice is absolutely lo- it's gone over to, uh, the, the Catholic Church, in the real sense. I mean, what use is it being chosen for natural gifts if those natural gifts will simply plunge you deeper in hell? The, the gifts become a curse, and even the choice becomes a curse. And that's exactly what's happened. The choice of the Jews in that sense ha- has become a curse. A people singled out with special gifts, that's become, they made of it for themselves a curse. This curse be upon us and upon our children until, his blood be upon us and upon our children. They call down upon themselves as a curse that mission which they refuse, they refused, the reason for which... And th- but, the, uh, it's the Gentiles remember, um, and it's a, it's a rhombus. What? In geometry, a rhombus. A, uh, a square that's got the shape of it. These four sides are all equal. It's parallelogram with four equal sides is called a rhombus. That's a Greek word obviously, R-H-O-M-B. We, we, Greek would have been U in that instance, uh, Ane- Anery in Latin it's U, rhombus. Um, rhombus. Um, some people, some people actually call it a rhombus. Um, I wish to, uh, announce that the, um, the English language you're presently hearing spoken at meetings, uh, bears, bears only a faint resemblance to the King's English. (laughs) Because of course it's, uh, um, it's a sort of problem, so. (laughs) But you know, one has understanding. (laughs) Um, so that's, that is a rhombus. Uh, so, um, here the, the, the Je- the Jews were chosen here. This, let's say Abraham. And they were chosen out, Abraham was chosen out of, he was pulled of the Ur of the Chaldees, and that was the beginning of the ascent, the rise of the Jews to their position of election. So that, the Jews, at this moment, the Jews were elect and the Gentiles were despised by the Jews. The Gentiles were clearly, I mean, the, and the Jews were, the Jews were told by God to stay away from the Gentiles. And he didn't say, "Despise them," but he said, "Keep yourself uncontaminated by the pagans." This is the sea of the Gentiles. But then, of course, our Lord Jesus Christ, at that point comes our Lord Jesus Christ, and then the Gentiles ascend to make the church, the Catholic Church. Whereas you can say that at this very moment, the Jews actually begin a crash diet, a great number of them, by their own choice. And therefore, very few of the Jews maintain their election. Their election, their election turns into a curse in any sense in which their election remains, it turns into a curse, by their own choice. And their privileges go over in, and much, much, much more to the Catholics, and the Catholics are much more elect than the Jews ever were, in real supernatural terms. In natural terms, the Jews remain, and the Jews are still very gifted musicians, they're gifted comics and so on. They have those gifts, but, but the, the greatest of gifts of the Jews compared to the gifts of Catholics are as anybody, what to what says Saint Paul? The greatest gifts of the Jews, the election of the Jews is to the election of Catholics as- Shadow. ... shadow to?... the real thing, exactly. The, the election of the Jews was only a shadow of the election of Catholics. That's what makes the Jews, the proud Jews, so hopping mad. You know, they, they bitterly resent that they've been sort of pushed to one side, as they see it. They weren't pushed aside to one side at all. All they had to do was enter the Catholic Church, like Peter, James, John, uh, Philip, Bartholomew, uh, Joseph of Arimathea, the Mother of God, the Apostles. I mean, th- they entered the Church and because they are the glory of the Church. They're the foundation of the Church. But the rest of the Jews, they're elect? Wha- in what sense are all of the rest of the Jews still chosen? (scoffs) It's, it's not very much. It's not really very much in human terms, except of course, they are still close to the heart of Gor- God, and He will rescue them. (machine whirs) He does chastise them. They are severely chastised even today when they're coming back to world power, by the criminal apostasy of the Gen- Gentiles. Now that the Jews are coming back to world power, it's still only a curse for them, because it means that they've got the power to, to wreak terrible sins o- on all mankind, against all mankind, by which they will be damned thems- damned their souls for all eternity, fiercely. (clears throat) Worse than they could ever have done if they'd still remained locked up in the ghettos. Therefore, all of their gifts and, t- turn to poison a- a- as long as they r- remain the way they are. However, they, they are chastised specially by God, God does...
It's, it's absolutely scripture. It's Saint Paul. Pure Saint Paul. "You're not children..." It's our Lord. "You're not children of Abraham." He says . So, um, so they fill... The, the Je- Temple of Judaism fills with smoke. Now almost none enter the church until the end of the church's preaching and now is the end of the world. Also, uh, sinners refuse the apostolic teaching and the church fills with smoke, and they exclude themselves from the church. Anything else, uh, anything in chapter 15? Uh, ? (Inaudible) One moment. Um, yes. Well, chronologically that's a bit funny, but the idea is that the apostles are spreading the doctrine which is coming obviously with our Lord, and then there are the four, uh, evangelists and then there are the four apostles. I mean, chronologically it's, it's a bit intermixed or a bit wacky if you like, but the idea is, uh, that the source of doctrine, the doctrine which the, which the apostle carries and the source which for us today, the closest we get today to that source is, is the, is the, uh, apostles, the four gospels. (Inaudible) I, I, well it's the, the coming out of the old law. See, they, they, the, the seven angels came out. Seven angels came out. And you previously had the, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony. Right. Right? And the temple is Christ's humanity. So it came forth from Christ, you follow me? This doctrine, this teaching comes forth from Christ, really. I think that's what... That's why he says the seven angels are represent rather the ap- apostles immediately carrying out, carrying out Christ's doctrine. Right? Okay. The doctrine as condensed in the four gospels. Okay. Chapter 16 then. The, uh, seven vials, cups, um, containers, uh, Styrofoam mugs if you like. (laughs) It might get a bit melted by the wrath of God, but still, you know, it's... We must update. (coughs) All right. Thur- uh, firstly, uh, the... I said that this... These are the, uh, the end of times, but at the same time, it's... There is still an a- some application to the seven ages of the church, as we'll see. Firstly, "I heard a great voice from the temple crying out to the seven angels, 'Uh, go and pour out the seven vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.' " I heard a great voice. Um, the ch- uh, 16 shows us the preachers of the church fulfilling their mission of pouring out vials of the wrath of God upon the diverse agents of the Antichrist. There's also a moral sense of these seven sins, but we'll come back to that. So firstly, the quasi-historic sentence. Uh, e- the mission of pouring out the vials of the wrath of God upon the Antichrist's diverse agents. The voice is the voice of God speaking from the church. "I heard a great voice speaking from the temple." It's the voice of God speaking from the church. He's speaking alone, compare Exodus 25:22. "Thence will I give orders and will speak to thee over the propitiatory and from the midst of the two cherubims which shall be upon the ark of the testimony all things which I will command the children of Israel by thee." So the... In 25, Exodus 25, the Lord God is giving Moses instructions for how to set up the Holy of Holies, and from there he will speak to Moses to give him instructions for the people. Um, "Go and pour out the seven vials of the... I heard... Saying to the seven angels, 'Go.'" Go is the divine mission which is necessary for preachers. It's called canonically jurisdiction. Go. Not... The, the priesthood is, one, an ordination, and two, a jurisdiction. One, a consecration. Two, a diocese. The, a bishop is consecrated, then given a diocese by the Pope. A priest is ordained and then given a parish by the bishop if, if he's going to be priest for this parish. Just a few day- few weeks ago, Bishop Bernard Harrington was inducted, he was seated as Bishop of Winona, and something of the old ceremony is still there. He was seated by the Archbishop of... Or was it Bishop Wheaton? I can't remember. I think so.... Archbishop Weakland. I think we belong to the archdiocese of, of, uh, of, um, Milwaukee. Is that right? Does anybody know? I'm not sure. Yeah, I think it was Weakland who seats him. He, he brings him to the seat and then the bishop sits down. Bishop Harrington sat down in the seat. He's the one that said, you know, they're talking about, uh, Jesse the body manturer, "You might call me the, Bernie, the, Bernie the Spirit." (laughs) This was in the sermon. "You might call me Bernie the Spirit." Bernie the Spirit Harrington. So, you know. (laughs) And then he said, um, uh, you know, during the sermon... I've seen a videotape of his, of the ceremony with Dr. Walsh, if anybody else would like to watch it. (laughs) There's a videotape, videotape, I've seen, and, um, he says, "I, I would like to thank my predecessor who's really a..." I, I'm caricaturing. Um, sometimes I do. (laughs) Uh, "I'd like to s- I'd like to say thank you to my predecessor who set things up so well for me. Give him a hand, folks." And he himself was clapping like that in the pulpit, to give everybody the example, you know. Uh, it's so, so, uh, it's el cheapo. (laughs) Really is el cheapo. But he's a performer. Bishop Harrington is a performer. Oh, yeah, yeah. He's got that Irish blarney. Ooh. (laughs) He, (laughs) he knows, he knows his people. He knows how to push the people's buttons. That's my impression, anyway. So he's been around a little and he kn- he knows his way around the block. That's my impression. All right. He's been around the block, you say, Rob. I think that's, that's, uh, all right. But he was inducted, and that's, that's completely normal. He was being... He was consecrated, whenever he was consecrated several years ago, and he's been a, uh, an auxiliary in Detroit, I think it is. Uh, but now he's been given his own diocese and that's the jurisdiction and he is the pastor of this flock. And it is his flock, and it, and it's... That's the jurisdiction he's been given, which is completely normal. What, what surprised me somehow as I watched the whole ceremony, what surprised me is actually how much that there is still solid there, rather than how much is wacky. I mean, wacky though it is. Uh, and there was a mass and so on, and then all his relatives came up with the offerings and this, and he ha- he had a hug and a kiss for all his cousins and uncles and aunts and all the ones that came up and said, uh, you know. Uh, but what surprised me was the, the idea is solid, of course, a pastor being officially introduced to his flock, so to speak. A past- a pastor being officially preposed to his flock, that is, he's put in charge of his flock. That, the idea is absolutely solid, and that, that still there. There was a, you know, a congregation of people only invited him into the cathedral. The cathedral was full, Winona Cathedral was full. And, uh, you had this sense of a, of a congregation. I mean, there was a flock there. Then, of course, they had a kind of folk singer who would sort of kick in at regular intervals with a mic- (laughs) ... and he would sort of go, he would spread... He looked, he looked a little zonky, actually. (laughs) And he was... He would sing and spread out his arm. He would spread out his arm like that when everybody an- when he wanted everybody else to join in, you know. And then, of course, he was (laughs) joined by a Ms. Zonky or a Mrs. Zonky alongside him. (laughs) And so she was, you know, quite well, well... She, sh- in order to sing, you know, you need a bit of size, so... (laughs) She... So, so the two of them standing at the mic there. (laughs) He put out his left arm and then she would spread out her right arm for him. (laughs) So f- "Sing up, folks. Sing up." And then, of course, the folks would all sing up. (laughs) Oh, my. Compared with the old, it was, it's el cheapo. But there's still something there. There is still something there. It wouldn't... Boy, could you revive it? Oof. Could you revive it? If you had a strong pope who would survive in Rome without getting his throat cut, a strong pope who could pick, handpick his bishops to take charge of nations, who again, would have the power and the backing to... You, you could, you could revive quite a lot. And there's something that would pick up even here. There's something that's, that's gone. You know, the people are too far gone. But, uh, there's something that could be picked up. I, I... Still, I think could be picked up. That's the im- sort of impression I had. Maybe I'm wrong and I'm overestimating what, what's still there is that's solid there, but oof. Oof. (laughs) There were a lot of bishops. Oh, gosh, there must have been maybe a good eight or ten bishops at one point or another. Local dioceses, previous retired bishops, uh, even a couple of archbishops. Archbishop Roach was there, I think. There were previous ones from before. And then some of them were maybe not even able to get there because this was, uh, about the 6th of Jan- I think it was the 5th or the 5th now. Uh, some of them couldn't get there because of the, um, airlines. They, they, the, the, the cold weather was just stopping the planes, so I don't think everybody who was there even should have been there. So it was, it was, in its way, an occasion, but oh my, the... (exhales) The lack of dignity is, the lack of... They spoke more than ever about the dignity of man, and yet the, the, the ceremonies lacked any dignity. Yes. You know, I think the... I, as I recall, I think the main host was about that size, you know, so that everybody would be, would be able to see it, you know. I don't think that's the idea. I don't know. Not easy to (...) If anybody would like to wa- if anybody wants to watch that sometime, I might show it one evening perhaps. Um, all right. Uh, go. That's the mission, the jurisdiction, uh, which preaches need. Uh, you need a mission to preach and to hear confessions. Ju- Jurisdiction to preach and jurisdiction to hear confessions. It used to be controlled by canon law. And if the society pays no attention, it's only because the society su- is, can assume, can, may rightly assume-... that its priests are serious enough to, uh, for jurisdiction to be supplied by the souls that come towards the society priest. As a soul comes, so a soul brings down the jurisdiction. The society in question hasn't got the jurisdiction, the souls don't have the jurisdiction, but the souls coming to us trigger the jurisdiction coming from the church. It's, it's completely reasonable doctrine. Um, "And the first went away"... Ah, the, the, the, uh, "Went away and poured out"... "The first went out and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there was a savage wound, and terrible, upon men who had the character of the beast, and upon those who had worshiped, who worshiped his image." Well, the application to- (coughs) ... the Antichrist is very obvious, but let's look at the other application. The first angel, then, is the college of apostles going out on Christ's own orders. So this is the first age of the church. We're back to there is a certain application of this, even of the seven cups, to the, uh, a- ages of the church. The first then is the college of apostles going out on Christ's own orders. The earth here represents the Jews, who were a garden that had been specially dug over by the Lord God. Earth not in its usual sense of being obsessed with earthly things, although the Jews were, but, uh, in the sense of a garden that, in this case, had been specially worked over by the Lord God, and only grew bramble, for the most part only brambles and... Mystery of God's providence, and this never to be forgotten. The Jews, along with all the terrible things that they were at the time of our Lord, obviously, they had produced the greatest triumph of Judaism ever, which is the Blessed Virgin Mary. Humanly, they were the... And m- the, the Blessed Virgin Mary will have had g- two grandparents, uh, two parents obviously. She will have had four grandparents. She will have had eight great-grandparents. And all of these, in that la- in those last years coming down to, uh, the incarnation. And all of these eight grandparents and of the great-grandparents must have been of a great, great quality to produce the four grandparents that gave, that gave us Saint Joachim and Saint Anne, and then . So, you know, along with the terrible corruption of the scribes and Pharisees, in others, on this, in this special garden, there are some extraordinary roses growing amidst all of the briars and, and, and, uh, horrors, and there's stinging nettles and thorns and the rest. There are some extraordinary roses at that time. That the Jewish, the Jewish race succeeded in acting as the cradle of the Messiah. It did do it. The corruption was not such that there wasn't even a Saint Joachim and a Saint... There wasn't even one couple. There, there was one couple. And it must have been more than that as well. There must have been still something, enough support for Saint Joachim and Saint Anne to be the ex- the very, uh, very high-grade saints that they must have been to give birth to the Blessed Virgin Mary. Hmm. So the Jews did not fail in everything by the time our Lord came. (coughs) Of course, they also generated the 12 Apostles. The Apostles, obviously, without our Lord's instruction, would have been blind and dumb, and we see a trace of their blindness and dumbness even at what point? Anybody? (pause of speaking) Exactly. (coughs) J- even, right before the Ascension. Even after three years with our Lord, even after the Resurrection, even after the Holy Week, even after everything, they're still saying, "When are you gonna come and zap the Romans, dear Lord?" And our Lord says, "Wait a moment. Uh, just, just hang on 10 days, guys, for the Holy Ghost." (laughs) "He may make you understand something it's taken these three and a half years to fail to get you to understand. So just wait around a bit, guys." Uh, but you know, uh, so, um, n- th- th- it's true, but nevertheless, the- these, they, with the help of the Holy Ghost, they, and with the teaching of the Lord, these obviously, they, they were the founders of the Church, the 12 pillars on which the Church is built. So again, the Jews did not fail in their mission. So, but the great mass of them failed, but, but not... Uh, the Jews as a race did not fail. The great mass of them failed, but not as a race because they, there were the, they were the few that were needed to do what God wanted them to do. All right. 2,000 years of labor of the Lord God to prepare for the coming of the Catholic Church. Woo. All right. Uh, the first angel. So the, the, uh, the college of apostles going out on Christ's own orders. The earth is the Jews. The wound is AD 70, the destruction of Jerusalem, which was deadly to anti-Christians but not Christians. (pause) So the preaching of the apostles in Jerusalem caused that obstinacy and evil of the Jews which brought down the d- destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70. Had the Jews in Jerusalem listened to the apostles and repented of killing our Lord, then, of course, they wouldn't, their, the, uh, Jerusalem would not have been destroyed like it was. So the, the, uh, preaching of the apostles generated per accidens the obstinacy of the Jews which brought down that terrible punishment. And therefore, he says, "The, the, uh, he poured out his vial upon the earth, and there was a terrible wound."And, uh, that was upon the men who had the character of the beast. In other words, upon the Je- Jews, the historic activation of the agents of the church, upon the Jews who refused to follow Christ. The literal application in the, obviously, the men who will have followed the Antichrist. The moral meaning, we'll come to later. I... we'll come back, uh, over the whole chapter again with the moral sense of the seven capital sins. "The second angel poured out his vial upon the sea and there was caused blood as of a dead man, and, uh, the whole living soul died in the sea." The second angel is the apostles, secondly preaching to the violent and unstable sea of the Gentiles. Once again, the sea stands for violence, instability, the pagan world. So the second vial is the apostles, secondly preaching to the violent, unstable sea of the Gentiles. The blood that happened, they came about, there was made blood as of a dead man, and every living soul died in the sea. The blood is the persecution of the martyrs. And as of dead... uh, how... what's- what's the proper translation? As of a dead man, as of dead. Um, there came blood as it were of a dead man and every living soul died in the sea. There came blood as of a dead man. Uh, as of dead means that the blood is deadly to the persecutors. The blood is deadly to the persecutors. Um... it's not the blood of a wounded man who may be cured and put on his feet again, but the blood, like the blood of a dead man who will n- not come to life again. Thus the Roman Empire was destroyed by the barbarian invasions. And the prosecutors of Christianity, who in exchange for the temporal death, the worldly death that they inflicted upon the martyrs, received from God, uh, an eternal death, uh, were punished by God with an eternal death. So blood as of a dead man, the dead, uh, the... deadly to the persecutors. And every living soul died in the sea means that every soul in paganism drown... every soul drowning in paganism either converted and got out of the sea, got out of being a pagan, or helped to persecute and so perished. When the apostolic preaching struck the great Gentile crowds, great Gentile masses which were perishing, either the Gentiles converted and then they didn't perish or they refused to convert, even they joined, joined in the persecution and then, of course, they perished like pagans. Keep applying this to the world of Clinton, I mean, you know, the USA of Clinton. It's a pagan world quite obviously and it's... there's no... by no stretch of the imagination can you say that the great mass of- of people in the United States today are going to be saved, they're going to save their souls unless there's an extraordinary phenomen- phenomenon of conversion. What is obvious, on the other hand, is that these people are plunging into their paganism, they're wallowing ever more in their paganism, they're going to be damned. They're going to be damned. Um... and every living soul died in the sea. Almost every living American died in this wash of paganism, and pride, and filth, and stupidity, which is represented by the Clinton debacle. Oof. The media line, the line now coming o- out over the media is, of course, "Oh, the- the- the- the president is not gloating." You bet. Imagine. The president is not gloating. Everybody's been a loser in this. Imagine. Clinton is a loser just like everybody else. Imagine. Uh, and now, uh, now we must all work together to put it all together again, and the Republicans are going to help. Ah. The media are vile, vile. And said it's- it's not the media, it's not only the media's fault, it's the people that buy these media. The media corresponds... the degradation of the media corresponds to the degradation of the people. It's a terrible state of affairs. Terrible.If the, the Book of the Apocalypse has got it, got it nailed, you know? I mean, the, it's, it's a massive corruption, that's what it is. The like, the, the Book of the Apoc keeps on saying, "The mass of people who are a mass of corruption." Those that are saved have to make a special effort and they're the exception rather than the rule. It's what the Apocalypse keeps saying again and again. I'm afraid it's true. Whoo. God have mercy upon us. All right, the third, the third angel. "And the third poured out his vial upon the rivers and the fountains of waters and there was made blood." Uh, the third angel is the doctors of the third and fourth centuries, once again. Or the... third and fourth centuries of... or fourth and fifth centuries, the doctors, anyway. The rivers, they poured out their vial upon the rivers. The rivers are the heretics flowing downhi- downhill to Hell. (coughs) The rivers are the heretics flowing downhill to Hell. They poured out their vial upon the rivers and upon the fountains of water, of waters. The sources, uh, what you say here, upon the fountains of water and the fountains of waters. That's the spring with which a river starts, if you like, or the... what do you call it? The wellspring, the fountainhead from which a river starts. Um, the fountainheads are the heresiarchs, the leaders of heresy, those who start a heresy. So heresiarch is to heresy as a fountainhead is to the river flowing from it. The fountains are the heresiarchs. Blood is their bloody punishment, the bloody punishment of the heresiarchs. Heresiarch, a leader of the heresy. Um... "And I heard an aim, uh, an angel of the waters saying, 'Thou art just, O Lord, who art and who wast holy, who has judged us...' Because they have shed the blood of the saints and the prophets and given them blood to drink. '... and thou has given them blood to drink, for they all, they, they have deserved it.' And I heard another from the altar saying, 'Even so, Lord. Even so, Lord God Omnip- Almighty, true and just are their judgments." So, uh, the waters are, are different waters. I... Verse 5, "I heard an angel of the waters saying..." These waters are different. These are the living waters flowing from the throne of God. These are not the waters of verse 4. These are living waters flowing from the throne of God. "Thou art just, O Lord, who art and who wast holy, who has judged us because they have poured out the blood, they have shed the blood of the saints and the prophets and thou has given them blood to drink, for they have deserved it." (child crying) Verse 6, "The heretics are shedders of blood and as a fit punishment, they must drink blood in Hell." Professor Vojta, wh- who's Czech, explains how the Hussite heresy led to a great deal of shedding of blood. Obviously, out of the example of Protestantism. Within a few years of Luther, you had the Peasantry Revolts drowned in blood, and a few years later on from that, the Thirty Years' War, which devastated Germany in bloodshed. A third of Germany, a third of Germans died or something. Some terrible things from the Thirty Years' War. What's the date of the Thirty Years' War? When was it? Do you know? Approximately? Can you tell me what century it was? ...
Older? No, that's not gonna do. Date of the Thirty Years' War? Hand up. 1760. Yes, 1760. 1618 to when? (laughs) You got it. (laughs) You got it. Okay. (metal clangs)