Tonight's spiritual conference may be given by Father Dilley, because, uh, he has a few things he wants to say. Um, so chapter 19, uh, verse 15. Condemnation of the beast. 18 was the condemnation of the damned. 19 is the condemnation of the Antichrist. 20, the condemnation of the devil. And then 21, 22, the up... Uh, what do you call it? The upbeat conclusion, the celestial vision, the glorification of the saints and the splendors of Heavenly Jerusalem. Then, uh, the... Verse 15. Uh, where are we? Um, the armies. 15, the sword is the word of God, "And from his mouth proceeds a sword sharp on both sides, in order with it to strike the nations. And he will re-rule them with an iron rod, and he himself treads the wine press of the fury of the anger of Almighty God." The sword is the Word of God issuing from the Savior's mouth, two-edged to prune the good and to cut out... Cut down... To cut off the wicked. To prune the good and to cut off the wicked. 'Cause material prosperity is sometimes a curse, and material affliction is sometimes a blessing. All depends upon who, uh, who is on the receiving end and why. Material affliction can be a blessing if it prunes, if it cuts somebody off from pride, if it cuts them off from temptation, if it cuts them off from corruption. On the other hand, material prosperity can be a curse precisely if it, uh, exposes people to those things, like many people today. I'm fond always of quoting Deuteronomy. Look up Deuteronomy. I think it's Deuteronomy 8. Deuteronomy Chapter 8. Moses says to the Jews, "Watch out for material prosperity." Uh, um, verse eight, "For the Lord thy God will bring thee into a good land of brooks, and of waters, and of fountains, in the plains of which and the hills deep rivers break out, a land of wheat and barley and vineyards, wherein fig trees and pomegranates and olive yards grow, a land of oil and honey. Where without any want thou shall eat thy bread and enjoy abundance of all things, where the stones are iron and out of hills are dug mines of brass, that when thou hast eaten and art full, thou mayest bless the Lord thy God for the excellent land which He has given thee. Take heed and beware lest at any time thou forget the net... Lord thy God, and neglect His commands and judgments and ceremonies which I command thee this day. Lest after thou hast eaten and art filled, has built goodly houses and dwelt in them, and you have plenty of gold, plenty of oxen, plenty of all these things, lest thy heart be lifted up, and thou remember not the Lord thy God who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, and who led you through it and fed thee in the wilderness. Lest thou should say in thine heart," verse 17, "'My own might and the strength of my own hand have achieved all these things for me.' But remember the Lord thy God, that He hath given thee strength. If thou forget the Lord thy God and follow strange gods and serve them, behold now, I foretell thee, that thou shalt utterly perish. As the nations which the Lord destroyed at their entrance, so shall you also perish if you be disobedient to the voice of the Lord your God." So watch out for prosperity. Chapter... Deuteronomy Chapter 8. Because it can be dangerous. That said, a lot's happened in today's world since the Second World War. The Second World War, um, was material affliction that did a lot of people a lot of good, uh, spiritually speaking. But then people got away from the after-war years, and they got into prosperity, and the prosperity did a lot of people a lot of damage, has done a lot of people a lot of damage. So, uh, two-edged, two-edged sword in order to prune the good as well as cut off the wicked. A rod of iron, the inflexibility of the law of God. The rod of iron represents the inflexible law of God, the unbending law of God, unbending even for good men. The very least failings must be repented or purged in purgatory. Uh-Our Lord may, uh, rule with a rod of iron because He himself took the full anger of God upon Himself. And He himself will rule the nations with a rod of iron almost because He himself has trod the press, the wine press of the fury of the anger of Almighty God. (papers rustling) So, our Lord has... will rule with a rod of iron, the unbending law of God, because He himself has faced the full anger of God. Uh, and He has, upon his clothing and on, upon his thigh, inscribed King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He also may rule with a rod of iron because His divine right is hypostatically stamped upon His human nature. "The kings of Tharsis, and the islands shall offer presents. The kings of the Arabians and of Saba shall bring gifts: and all kings of the earth shall adore him: all nations shall serve him." Psalm 71:10-11. So again, it's the d- double title of our Lord. One, He has all rights because He is God. Two, He has all rights because He earned them by dying upon the cross as man. So, He is Christ the King by a double title, a title of inheritance from God the Father, and a title of conquest by the cross. Kings can become kings by inheritance or by conquest. And our Lord is, in His divine nature, king by inheritance, king of kings. And by His cross, He is king of kings by conquest over the devil. He conquered the devil w- who had empire over the earth, and therefore our Lord has empire over the earth as having conquered the devil. So, uh, the divine right of our Lord is, is hypostatically stamped. What does that mean, hypostatically? Is it done with a hypostatic syringe? Uh, Holden? Not (inaudible )(papers rustling) (laughs) It's just, um... It's (inaudible). Hypostatic. Do you know what the w- word actually means? There's no reason why you should. It's a technical term. The hypostatic union, it's a Greek word, hypostasis, is, uh... Hypostasis is, uh, substance, uh, sec- um, first substance. It's always posit in Latin. So, uh, the divine nature and the human nature are united in the one substance. We'd say normally we're sort of the o- the one thing, the one object, the one reality. This deposit is a technical term, but there's one... It's like two, two ha- two coats hanging on one peg. So the two ho- ho- the two coats are united by hanging on the same peg. The two natures are united by hanging on the same person or being. It's all... Uh, so the hypostatic union is the union of the divine and human nature, which was, uh, wrought at the very moment of our Lord's conception in the womb of the Blessed Virgin Mary. So that's what the hypostatic union... So hypostatically stamped means that it's stamped upon its human nature by its, its union, its, uh, union with the divine nature in the one person of the Word of God. Verse 17. "The, uh, and I saw an angel standing in the sun and cried out, he cried out with a loud voice saying to all the birds which were flying through the middle of the heaven, 'Come and gather together to the great supper of God.' " An angel is... here is the pre- preachers of the gospel. Preachers of the gospel standing in the sun, it says. That's a little strange. Um, but this is exactly... "I saw an angel standing in the sun. He cried with a loud voice saying to all the birds that did fly through the middle of heaven, 'Come gather yourselves together to the great supper of God.' " An angel is... Preachers of the gospel flooded in the light of Christ. An angel standing in the sun. Preachers of the gospel flooded in the light of Christ.Remember always, Angelos means messenger in Greek. Now, for anybody who has a message is an Ang- Angelos in the Book of the Apocalypse. It may be our Lord himself, it may be some human being, it may be, uh, a... what we would call an angel. It can be all kinds. "I saw another angel standing in the sun and it cried out with a great voice saying to all the birds." The birds are true Christians flying above the earth trusting in God. Again, flying above earthly things, flying above materialism, trusting in God. Uh, Matthew 6:26. Anybody? "Behold ye the birds of the air. They, they reap not, neither do they gather in barns." They neither spin nor toil? I think that's it. Yes, I think so. Uh, "And yet our... Your heavenly Father looks after them. Not one of them falls to the ground without your Heavenly Father..." I think it's the, the lilies of the field that spin not nor toil. Hold on. The Sermon on the Mount. Uh, Matthew 6. Uh... Um, what did I just say? 6:26. "Behold the birds of the air know your... For they, for they neither sow nor do they reap nor gather into barns and your Heavenly Father feedeth them. Are not you of much more value than they? And which of you by taking thought can add te- uh, stature one cubit? And for raiment why are you solicitous? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow. They labor not neither do they spin, but I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these. And if the grass of the field which is today and tomorrow is cast into the oven, God that so clothes, how much more ye- you, oh, ye of little faith." So it is they, the birds do not sow or reap and yet the Heavenly Father looks after them. Therefore, the birds flying above material things, uh, trusting in God. Uh, mid-heaven, uh, flying through the middle of the heaven, they fly towards God. Flying through the middle of the heaven they fly towards God. Neither to the left nor to the right. "Come and gather together for the great feast of God." The great supper is the eternal wedding feast. The eternal wedding feast. The heavenly bash that our Lord quite often speaks of. (laughs) Especially in his parables. What's the obvious comparison between... I mean, why is heaven compared to a wedding feast? Gardner? (?). Yes, that's right. Yes. Yes. You're going to be 34. You won't be 34. (laughs) (laughs) Yeah. Oh. (laughs) Oh, boy. You got that really in Portugal just in time. (laughs) I was on the brink of coming back. (laughs) Uh, wedding feast is most men's idea of a happy occasion, you know, and it's when without too many tears and without much regrets and so on and so on. It... And it is... Uh, comedies usually end in a wedding feast or a wedding at least. It's, um, classically anyway, it's... A wedding is its future, its hope, its, uh, um, happiness at least for a few months. (laughs) Uh, so a wedding feast because it's most men's normal idea. It's always an occasion in, in any sane society, it's always an occasion of rejoicing because... And not just with a couple obviously, but it's everybody rejoices in a wedding. So, um, that's in a sane society. Today, of course, it's different. Today, well, you hurry off to Las Vegas and you know, it's sort of a quarter of an hour in the office with, with as few people attending as possible, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And because you don't want to be tied to the same et cetera, et cetera. So nothing is right today. Uh, the eternal wedding feast, verse eight, verse 18, "In order that you may eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of the tribunes and the flesh of the strong and the flesh of the horses and those sitting on them and the flesh of all freedmen and of slaves of little and of great." Eat is convert, in order that you may convert. Compare Saint Peter who was told to eat the impure animals. Pe- Peter reve- uh, received a vision in Acts, you may remember, Acts 11, of being told to eat the impure animals. He was told the animals were no longer impure and he could eat them.Uh, and this represents his converting the Gentiles in (whispers). That's Peter eating the impure animals, is Peter converting the Gentiles. So that here you have... Uh, that's why to eat can mean to convert. So let the true Christians come to the eternal way of peace to convert. The tribunes are those who are powerful by authority. It was the name of, um, one of the constitutional officials of the Roman Republic in its later stages. The tribunes, they were representatives of the people. Uh, powerful by authority. The mighty are those powerful by wealth. (speaks in Latin) The flesh of the mighty. The horses, the flesh of the horses, are men, generous and impetuous, but who can be manipulated by riders, men generous and impetuous, but who can be manipulated by riders. The free men are libertarians. We, we would say today Liberals. And the slaves are servants of sin. Uh, the verse 19, "And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war with him, who sat upon the horse and with his army." The beast and the kings are the Antichrist and his lieutenants. The Antichrist and his lieutenants. Beast and the kings and their armies gathered together to make war upon him, who sat upon the horse and with his army. And the beast was laid hold on, was taken, the beast was captured, and with him, the pseudo-prophet. The pseudo-prophet is the false lamb of the second beast. There was the dragon, the first beast and the second beast. The pseudo-prophet is the second beast. The dragon is Satan. The first beast is the Antichrist. The second beast is the false church, the false lamb, which is the false church. The false lamb, the false church and the false churchmen, the pseudo-prophet. The false lamb, the false church, the false churchmen. That is all the pseudo-prophet. Who wrought signs before... Who wrought signs before him, before the beast, wherewith he seduced them, who received the character of the beast and who adored his image. These two were cast alive into the pool of fire, burning with brimstone. Uh, and with him, the pseudo-prophet who wrought signs in his presence, with which he seduced those who accepted the character of the beast and who adored his image. The two were (car horn honks) cast alive into the pool of fire, burning with sulfur. The pond of fire is the violent punishment for the greatest criminals. (speaks in Latin) And, and the rest were slain by the sword of him that sitteth upon the horse. The rest were slain. The followers are also punished by Christ's judgment. The rest were slain by the sword of him sitting upon the horse, the followers of the two beasts and the Anti-, of the Antichrist and the false church. The followers of the two beasts were also killed by the sword of him sitting upon the horse, the sword proceeding from his mouth. The followers are also punishment by the judgment of Christ, by the sword of him sitting upon the horse, the sword proceeding from his mouth, the judgment of Christ. The followers were also punished by the judgment of Christ. And all the birds were filled with their flesh. Uh, the birds were filled means the followers of Christ applauded Christ's judgment. The followers of Christ were satisfied. Blessed are the, they that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.So the birds were satisfied. Blessed are they that hunger and thirst, Matthew 5... verse... 6. "Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice, for they shall have their fill." Any questions on chapter 19? Uh, Birdie? Um, what is, uh, in verse, um, 15, uh, "his thigh"? What does it mean? Uh, any particular significance with thigh? It's, uh... sort of a tattoo. (laughs) (laughing) I mean... (laughs) (laughing) No, I don't know of any particular significance in the thigh. Uh, the thigh, I guess, stands for strength. Uh, it's... maybe. Probably some- some of the most strong muscles in the body. I don't know, I'm not a, an anatomist, but where are the two strongest muscles? Does anybody know? The- s- the strongest? The hamstrings. Uh, that's an interesting thought. That might be. I don't know if it's that strong. (laughing) It's not the, one of the most two most. The two strongest muscles? I would say, the biceps and the triceps. Uh-uh. No, I don't think so. Most? The jaw? Yes. The jaw is one of them. The jaw muscles are very strong. Uh, I guess proportionately, uh, but the- the jaw muscles are very strong indeed. They may not be all that big, but they're very strong. And the others, the- the other really strong muscle are the- the back muscles, right in the hole of the back, 'cause y- you- you can't walk or stand up without straining without those muscles. So apparently those are also very, very strong. That's what I once read, once saw, I'm not an expert but, uh... Jenkins? When he made the sign, He took the Scepter from ... (softly mumbles). Ah. That makes sense. Yes. Uh, go on. Yes, what does it say? The Scepter shall not be taken away from the prince of the world, nor the ruler from his thigh. Yes. That, that, there's a, there's, there, there's a, there may be a reference there. Yes. Also, ... (he says something, but can't be heard) Yes. Right. That's where (continues to talk faintly) Yes. Yes. In any case, uh, "The Scepter shall not be taken," uh, Ge- uh, Genesis 49:10, "Nor a ruler from his thigh." It comes as... Act- hmm. "Till he cometh that is to be sent, and he shall be the ex- death to the nations." Actually, "Nor a ruler from his thigh," I would think that's from the physical descendants, in fact, which is not quite the same thing as here because our Lord had no physical descendants, no physical ascendants except the Virgin Mary. (smacks lips) But no physical descendants. Uh, it's- it's just his human nature. It's stamped upon his human nature. (tapping sound) What did you s- what was your other reference about thigh? I think ...(mumbles) he was held in place with the angel's thigh. Yes. I think that's a euphemism. Uh... I think that's a euphemism. Uh, Darby? Didn't, uh, when Jacob wrestled with the angel, the angel touched his thigh. Because too many times, he was too, uh- Yes. ... too frail to walk. Yes. And he limped from then onwards. Yes. I don't know if there's a, if there's any connection there. I don't know. Uh, I think it's just, um... it's just a, it re- it just represents a strong part of the human frame, that's all, I think. I don't know. I don't know. Any other questions? Chapter 19. Lester? Is the harlot of chapter 17 Babylon of chapter 18? It seems to be saying at the end of chapter 17, the last week, "And the woman shall say unto the great city," and then it goes on right then to talk about the Great City of Babylon. I'd have to think about that. Uh, the harlot is basically sensuality, isn't- isn't she? Um... And that can be when (coughs) he brought to judgment on the great harlot, but it was the city that was just condemned through Babylon. Yes. I need to look over it carefully or I need to look all o- over all of it and think again. Um... she is the, the harlot is the queen of this world, sensuality, f- f- uh, female sensuality, which is queen of the world. Um... seductive and, uh, damnatory. The connection between the harlot and Babylon, Babylon stands for the world. So between the sensuality, the f- and the world... (exhales loudly) And the ...(cuts off) Commerce, materialism. Go on. There often is fornication (...) (cut off). Yes. Yes. "And the great city came and ...(cut off)". There are, "The kings of the earth all fornicated with her. And the merchants have all become rich on by virtue of her delicacies." It's, Babylon is the world and the woman is sensuality. They're- they're- they're closely connected. To say whether- whether they're exactly the same, I'm not sure of that. Um...I'd need a little notice of that question. I... they're both symbols. (thudding) They might, to some extent, overlap, but they're, they're different symbols. I think the one is, the woman is more sensuality, the- the one, the woman is more the flesh and, uh, Babylon is more the world, I think. The world, the flesh, and the devil, I think, broadly. So there's... I don't... There's some overlap, but I don't think they're quite identical, I don't think, because a city is not identical with a woman riding on a horse. Uh, one is the image of a city and the other's an image of, of a, of a human being. It's not quite the same. I don't think so. Uh, Chapter, (papers rustling) uh, 20, the punishment of the devil, the punishment of the damned, the punish... 18, the punishment of the Antichrist, 19, was flung into the pit of fire with the false lamb. 20, the punishment of the devil. The... 20 is the double defeat of the devil, the double defeat of the devil. Verses 1 to 6 is defeat in AD 33, is defeat by the cross, and verses 7 to 14 is defeat at the end of the world. That's why a double defeat. He was defeated for the first time by our Lord on the cross. He will be finally defeated at the end of the world. "And I saw an angel again," chapter 20, another angel, uh, "An angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand." It reminds me of a cover of, um, one of those rock groups. Which is it? Th- there's a devil with a gr- long chain. On the end of the chain is a Catholic priest drowning in a, drowning in a kind of lake. Does anybody remember that cover? (Inaudible). Yes, maybe. Is that AC/DC? No. (papers rustling) Just the name of the group, yeah. (Inaudible). Okay. Uh, somebody... I once saw that- that's very clear. A wimpish-looking Catholic priest with shackles around his neck, drowning while the devil rejoiced. So, "I saw an angel coming down from heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand." The angel is Christ, descending in his incarnation. The angel is Christ coming down from heaven at his incarnation. Holding the key of the abyss is the cross of Christ. The key of the abyss is the cross of Christ. "And I will lay the key of the house of David upon his shoulder, and he shall open and none shall shut, and he shall shut and none shall open." Isaiah 22:22. (clears throat) The key is the cross of Christ. Isaiah 22:22. The great chain is the power of Christ to fix men in heaven or in hell. It's one of the, um, advent antiphons, the great o-antiphons. "The great chain is the power of Christ to fix men in heaven or in hell, and in his hand means that this power is at the disposal of his sacred humanity." "And he laid hold on the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for 1,000 years." Oh, here it... This is the 1,000 years, the famous 1,000 years. "And cast him into the abyss and closed it and sealed it so that he should no longer seduce the- the- the peoples until the 1,000 years are over, and after this, it's- it is appointed to him to be released for a little time." (coughs) Uh, the dragon is the strength of Satan and the serpent is his cunning. "He grasped hold of the strength of Satan, the ancient- with his ancient cunning, that is the devil." (coughs) The devil comes from the Greek word diabolein, meaning to turn upside down, to throw apart, to... Uh, devil is the introducer of duality and discord. The devil is... means... Diabolos means the source of du- duality, of division, and discord. (coughs) Throwing something apart.What's a Discobolos? Anybody? The Discobolos. It's a famous statue, Discobolos. It's the disc thrower. It's a famous statue of an athlete preparing to- to throw the disc, which, uh, which is an ancient Greek sport, which was obviously the Olympic Games, when the Olympic Games have picked up. Discobolos, the thrower of the disc. Diabolos, the thrower of upside down or apart. So the, uh, causer of division and discord. Satan is, uh, is it Aramaic or Hebrew? I'm not sure, but in any case it means adversary. The essential enemy of all good. Anybody know what language Saturnus is? Is it... Yes? I'm not sure. Saturnus. I'm not sure. Aramaic or Hebrew I think. Uh, the adversary, essential enemy of all good. Bound, uh, and he bound him for a thousand years. The angel tied up Satan for 5,000 years. Good strong duct tape. Uh, Christ prevented by his passion, by Christ pas- passion, Christ preve- prevented the devil from doing all he wants, and enabled all who wish to be saved. By his passion, Christ tied up the devil from doing all that he wants, and enabled all who wish to be saved. The 1,000 years is not an exact figure, but it's- it's symbolic of perfection. It's a- a perfect time, perfect length of time, a thousand years. It means here until the end of the world, when the Antichrist and the devil will again be given great power. So the thousand years is the duration of time running until the end of the world when the devil will begin, be given great power. Notice that, uh, k- kind of, it took the church 500 years to tie up the devil in a manner of speaking. The victory was there, essentially there when our lord died upon the cross. But to get that victory over on the world, it took the church about 500 years, until about 500 AD, to tie down the Roman Empire and then to tie down the heretics, and to make possible Christendom, which lasted about a thousand years, and then Luther was let loose and the Modern Age was let loose, which has been piling up and increasing all the way through to today, preparing for the Antichrist. So you might say the thousand years are 500 to 1500. It's, that's possible, a possible application. But it's certainly not the literal or the only literal meaning of the 1,000 years here. The 1,000 years is more general, the- the duration of time from Christ to the Antichrist, during which time anybody who wishes can be saved because the devil is essentially tied up. But at the end, he's going to be given again special power. He's already, in modern world, been given a great deal of power. Leo XIII saw it in a vision in the 1880s, I think. Leo XIII was just, was just saying mass and he was saying the thanks... He had just finished saying mass or was it during mass? Does anybody know? After mass? And, uh, he sort of turned as white as a sheet, and, uh, those who were his servers with him, "Holy Father, what happened? What happened?" And he says, "Well, I- I heard a dialogue between... I just heard a dialogue between Satan and Christ." Is that right? And, uh, Satan, uh, asked for power and Christ said, "Righto, I'll give you power, uh, for a hundred years." So, but Satan, there's no question that Satan has been especially let loose in the modern world, and it's no question that it's by men's fault that he's been let, he's been let loose as a punishment. And he's doing as he likes today. I think I told you, the exorcists who are serious about exercising, they say that his power is getting greater and greater. I mean, he's- he's walking around the universe more and more as though it's his domain, he can do as he likes. Of course, with most men he can do as he likes because they don't even believe he exists. The masterstroke is to make people believe that you, for him, was to make people believe he doesn't exist. I mean, even today, very few dioceses probably even have an exorcist. In the old days, every Catholic diocese would have a professional exorcist, which was very wise because it's a specialized job. A job? It's a s- so, much more sublime thing than a job. But-It's a specialized- it's d- it's dangerous for an ordinary priest because it's- you're tangling with the devil, and you, you need to fast and you need to, it's much better to have experience. I don't know how exorcists originally got appointed, um, and uh, if there's an exorcist that, that takes the weight off the local priest. But if the diocese has an exorcist, then the, the priests have got somebody to send possessed souls to. And then he can, as an expert, he can tell whether they're re- first work out whether they're really possessed, because of course there are quite a lot of women who easily think they're possessed or want to be possessed. That's the way they are. Uh, some of them are too. Uh, then uh, the exorcist will, uh, take it upon himself and, and he will deal with it. But today, that's how it should be in a diocese so that the diocese has got somebody who's accustomed to dealing directly with the devil. Uh, Archbishop Lefebvre, I don't know if I told you this, but um, if I did, I t- it doesn't matter if I tell you again. Uh, every now and again, of course, the society priest would, souls would come to a society priest and ask to be exercised, and the, the Archbishop advised against, he advised, "Don't get into those." He said, "Be very careful. Don't get into it." First, because the devil is so cunning and it takes somebody with experience and wisdom to tangle with him, and with sanctity as well. Secondly, uh, the devil takes his revenge. Uh, in that famous Iowa case in Earling in 1928, uh, the parish priest who allowed the, this priest from outside to use his parish and use his convent, I mean the convent of his parish, uh, to exorcize this woman, the, the nuns helped to hold her down and so on, uh, that parish priest, uh, got nearly, literally run off the road. He was driving his car and the car just smashed into the side of a bridge over an abyss, and uh, (laughs) the priest, uh, realized then that, um, it was, it was absolutely diabolical. The pri- the devil just took over his car and he hadn't, he wasn't allowed to throw the car over the edge, but the priest had to climb out pretty carefully in order not to tip over and, and et cetera, et cetera. You find it in that Tan book, uh, Begone Satan!. And uh, and, and he's just, and he was catching it simply because he had allowed the use of his parish for this visiting priest to perform this exorcism. Uh, so y- you're tangling with major forces. I mean if, if, if the, if the devil is really involved, you're tangling with a major enemy and you got to know what you're doing. Uh, the other thing is that, um, well, the archbishop s- used to say was if you're dealing with the devil, then say mass, celebrate the mass. The, the greatest exorcism is the mass. So if you get some soul c- coming to you, and of course the other immediate thing is when did you last go to confession? Because confession will drive out the deliberate devils. I mean, will d- if, confession drives out a lot of devils, because a lot of devils accompany mortal sin. It's as simple as that. So if you drive out mortal sin, you're already getting rid of a lot of the grip of the devil. And uh, therefore, when, how much does the soul pray? Uh, is, uh, uh, are they praying? Are they saying their prayers? Are they praying the rosary especially? Are they using holy water? If they're doing all of these things and still you get symptoms, well, of course, then... And then uh, a, a sign of real possession is of course that they can't stand holy water. So if whoever it is doesn't, doe- has no particular objection to holy water, you can assume that there's probably not a real possession. But if they jump like a scalded cat when you sprinkle them with holy water, I've never seen that myself, but if it, if they jump, uh, then, then you may well have somebody who's possessed. You may have somebody. It's one of the symptoms. But the archbishop used to say the greatest exorcism is the mass, and the mass is compl- is, in this respect, completely safe. It's very powerful. You say it for the person's intentions, very, very powerful. But it doesn't get you directly involved. It's getting our Lord involved, so to speak. Therefore, uh, you don't run into the inconveniences of, of actual performance. So because there were young priests who sort of wanted to take on the devil and felt they were strong in their young priesthood and they just, they're just spoiling for a fight and they were longing to mix it with the devil. Very unwise. Very unwise. He's very smart and much smarter than, uh, the devil. The, has an a- angelic intelligence, so you've got to be very careful.