Who's missing? So, one, two, three, four, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. There's a bunch missing. Are they all sick? Are you all sick? Yeah, I am sorry. John Jenkins? Bryce? Bryce is? I am here. Ah, okay. Jenkins? John Jenkins? Chapter 16, The Seven Vials/Cups. Uh, the third vial, verse four, we had seen. The doctors of the third or fourth century poured out their afflies upon the river, which is the, the rivers of heretics, flowing downhill to hell. The fountainheads of the rivers are the heresiarchs. And there was blood as their bloody punishment of heretics. Uh, you heard that again with, uh, the evening reading, Arnold of Brescia. Uh, Peter Abelard spins theories in the theology hall, and it comes out on the streets soon after that. Theology h- h- works on the streets. Uh, you better believe it. Um, some of you have been doing... Vatican II is gonna work out as our chastisement. (laughs) (laughs) It's gonna work out on the streets of the universal world. But Vatican II, that question of, uh, you know, the, the, the vision of God, question 12, do we have a natural vision of God? Uh, you know, and, uh, I was talking about it with Father, Father, um, Godrey. But there's a, there's a ginormous principle behind that. Um, that is this, you know? Some of you may remember this. Omnem forma, omnem forma... Sequitur... Anybody? Inclinatio. Inclinatio. Somebody who has done some high class philosophy. All right. Forma. To form corresponds inclination. It's a ginormous question. Uh, form is either, um, cognoscens, cognitiva, or incognitiva, knowing with knowledge or not knowledge, incognitiva. Incognitiva is, of course, intellectiva and sensitiva. You could... It's incognitiva seu entitativa, entitativa. Let's say that the form of my being... For instance, um, if I get thrown out of the window on the 10th floor, I may be a rational being, but I crash to the ground exactly like a camera, exactly like a stone. It's my forma entitativa which crashes to the ground. If my forma sen- sensitiva or intellectiva had anything to do with it, uh, I wouldn't be crashing to the ground. So, my forma sensitiva, at that point, is anticipating a nasty, uh, collision, and therefore is screaming. And my forma intellectiva, uh, i- is screaming rationally because, uh, I mean, with my reason as well, I know that I'm gonna hit the ground, so. So, that, to that triple corresponds a triple inclination. Uh, what is the inclination of, um... This is appetitus, appetitiva. That's the usual word for, uh, appeti- It's either, it's the sensitive appetite, in other words, if you like passionis, or the intellective appetite, which is voluntas. Whereas this is not an appetite, except in the broad sense. I mean, you can use words how you like, but as long as you get things clear, uh, this is an inclinatio entitativa. You know, this en- enti- like the stone falling to the ground. So, for instance, uh, uh, let's say lapis, the stone, cadit. That's its inclination, if it's left without support. Lapis cadit. Uh, oves fugit. The sheep sees the shape of a wolf on the horizon (clears throat) and scrams, scuffles, skedaddles, gets out of the way. Oves, or is it ovis? Ovis. Ovis fugit. The sheep flees.And then, of course, um, the intellectiva, uh, voluntas will be, uh, something I grasp in my mind, uh... to, to, to, to... and which I desire with my will. What's an example of that? Um, anybody think of an example? Um, so it's either everybody missing out on the internet at the moment? Uh, the intellect wills, for goodness sakes. Um, oh, for goodness sakes, for goodness sakes, for goodness sakes. Um, opera eas. Opera, let's go. Uh, okay. (laughing) Opera eas, let's go. Vamos. Okay. Especially if it's... well. (laughing) Okay. Opera eas. Now, um, that this again actually should subdivide. I mean, I've got, we've not got it big enough, but let, let's subdivide the inclinatio intellectiva. This is huge and it's, it's... and what Saint Thomas says, Saint Thomas will say, "Every form, upon every form there follows an inclination." That's the subject, inclinatio. Follows is a deponent verb. Don't say every form is followed by an inclination, although that, that's a loose translation. Uh, an inclination follows every form. He could just as well say, "Omnis inclinatio sequitur quondam forma." Every inclination follows upon some form. There, there, there's an absolute correlation between form and, um, uh, inclination. This of course is cognitiva. What's another word for in- in- forma cognitiva? Anybody? Informatio. This is in- information, right? Information. I am informed entitatively by human nature, as long as I am what I am. I am informed cognitively by what I'm sensing and by what I'm intelliging. Uh, what I'm sensing is a classroom and that informs me, and then what in- is, in... also, what I'm intelliging is a classroom said, said alit- said aliter. I'm intelliging the same classroom, but intelligibly. The intellect is abstracting the intelligible essence of a classroom at the same time. All right, so. Uh, therefore, this is, uh, my form and that's my information. Again, that's a question of words, but the profundity of the, um, of Thomas and Aristotle is to see the analogy between the entitative information and the cognitive information. In any case, whichever, each has its corresponding inclination. Okay. So now, if we come to, uh, if we... let's take the subdivided... I should've made it bigger. The inter... uh, informatio intellectiva subdivides into naturalis and supernaturalis. The supernaturalis. All right? There's a, there's a natural information of my intelligence and a supernatural information of my intelligence. The supernatural information of my intelligence, for instance, by the faith. That's the faith, that's the s- seated in the intellect, uh, is a supernatural information and information of which my natural forces are completely incapable. And that's the whole point. There is no way... I mean, it's a metaphysical law, there is absolutely no way in which the natural form can achieve a supernatural inclination. It's just not possible. The natural form is gonna bump along the top of the limits of nature. There's no way it can go through the ceiling into... purely as a natural information hitting a supernatural object. There's just no way. Or resulting in a supernatural inclination. Absolutely no way. Therefore, I can't have just by my natural intellect a desire to see God as God. Th- to supernaturally see God. It's not possible. It's, it's absurd, uh, to, to suppose it. Therefore, if I want... if I have an inclination towards God as God, it's only going to be, uh, by some supernatural information. God must give me some supernatural n- information before I'm gonna be able to desire to see the supernatural God. That's, it's just a law of being. There's no way around it at all. You know the distinction between, uh, God as natural and God as supernatural. There is the Holy Trinity in Himself, supernatural, and then the natural God is like the, my comparison, like the ti... the little heat shield on the bottom of the, of the, uh, space satellite. The heat shield. Uh, the, the, the amount of the, the amount of the Godhead that Lord God deployed in creating the universe, I... in creating the natural universe is a flick of his fingers. It's nothing compared with the Goddess... this Goddess in Himself. So this is God in God. Now, the natural inclination can go for the heat shield. Yes, God is the author of nature.... God as the author of nature. God as the author of nature? Yes, that I have necessarily got a desire to know. Yes. Because I can pick up with my intellect the effect, natural effects, and therefore I want to know the natural cause of these natural effects, and therefore I have a natural inclination to know, a des- a desire to know God as the author of nature, yes, yes, a thousand times yes. But from there, to wanting to know God as God is in Himself, there's no way I can even imagine what God is and God i- is in Himself, above and beyond the heat shield. The heat shield is all that the effects tell me. Here I am with my natural powers of intellect. Here are the effects, for instance, the beautiful sunset. The beauti- here are the natural effects, the natural effects climb to God the author of nature. There's no way in which they go through to God as He is in Himself. No way. It's absolutely impossible. It's just a law of, law of nature. So, uh, I mean, it's a law of being because form and inclination correspond to one another. Therefore, uh, tha- that's why, uh, yet Saint Thomas has these quotations like, you know, he may, uh, but the, um, he has these quotations which seem to say that we have a natural desire to know God as He is in Himself but the quotations need to be interpreted, those quotations of Thomas need to be interpreted. The interpretation is that it's, um, what does, what does... how, how the Thomist spelled it out. It's a natural inefficacious, as I'm missing a word, inefficacious desire to see God. There's a wo- a word missing. A natural, anybody? You've been doing this. What does Gary good at saying? Gary go to is very reliable as an ex- founder of Saint Thomas, very faithful to Saint Thomas in my, in all my experience. I mean, every time I read Gary it corresponds to everything I've ever read in the summer and it's, um, and again, uh, the Thomists, the classical Thomists say that the, the most that there can be by way of natural design, th- it's a natural inefficacious desi-, um, oh, gosh, what's, there's a, there's a word missing. Come on, somebody surely done this. No . I don't know. It's, it's natural i- inefficacious. There's a word I'm missing. There's an adjective I'm missing. Efficacious, uh, inefficax, a natural illicit, iner- it's illicit I think is the word I'm looking, il- illicit. Um, it is the only desire that, that, that the natural mind can have to see God in Himself is, is, um, uh, s- you see, if you didn't have the faith, if n- if nobody ever had the Catholic faith, supposing that nobody had ever had the Catholic faith, there's no way any of us would even know that God was anything more than just the author of nature. There's no way. There's no way. Father, Son, and Holy Ghost and all the rest, there's no way we could know that. We would have, w- all that we would know would be the, uh, pure act, we would know that God is pure act, that He is one, that He is perfect, that He is infinite, and ra- all, all of those perfections which the reason can grasp, like Aristotle grasped, we would grasp. For Him we would desire to know. But that He is three in one, one in three, and all of the rest of His supernatural perks, we wouldn't even have an inkling of it. How could we desire it? It's impossible. We couldn't, what we w- w- what we would have no knowledge of, we could have no natural desire of. So it's only because the faith tells us that He's much more than just the author of nature. So, um, so how do we, uh, uh, come onto this? I forge- I forgot how we come onto this. Uh- (coughs) Uh, every inclination, every form is followed by some inclination. And the inclination corresponds to the form. And it can't exceed the form, obviously. You see? Because the form is the information of the inclination. There's no way in which the inclination is the consequence of the form. The effect can't exceed the cause, (Latin) and therefore the inclination can't exceed the form. No way. Or the, the inclina- the e- a- the appetite can't exceed the information. (Latin) So, um, that you can call . Nolla i- i- if, if you don't know something, there can be no desire of it. (Latin) That should be strictly (Latin) but the expression is a little loose. (Latin) That's what it would strictly be. And (Latin) that's another saying that says the same thing. And (Latin) it's, it's such a law. If ours was Thomas, you see these things so clearly, you get all pulled together so clearly according to s- y- with a, with a few princi- basic principles to possess the whole thing. It's very, it's a very lightweight system, believe it or not, Saint Thomas is very lightweight baggage in the mind. With a few principles, you hold everything. So instead of having to learn masses and masses of things by memory, you, you get hold of a few principles and then they unlock the whole th- unlock the universe. Uh, where do we go, how do we get on to, uh, this? Um, the fountains of the waters and there was blood. (coughs)Sorry? Theology and priest is another, shedding of blood and griffiths' money. Yes, that's it. Yes, you're quite right. Um, within, uh, the... Arnold Agassiz, The, The Theology... That's right. Thank you very much. Uh, what is, what is said in the theology rooms is, within a certain space of time, out on the streets. And you've got, um... This question is the whole question of naturalism. It's enormous. The, what's so strong in St. Thomas is the clear distinction between grace and nature. And what the modernists want to do is to blur grace and nature. And one of the places where Thomas comes, if you like, closest to blurring grace and nature, and where the others therefore try to cart the horse through, is when he says that the, the, the intellect has a natural desire to see God as he is in Himself, see the essence of God. Uh, and therefore, the, uh, it's, it was a great question at the time of Bius and Jansenius. Uh, I forget exactly how or why. Can anybody tell me what's the connection between Bius... Why did Bius get this question wrong? Because it's the question of Luth- uh, Lutheranism, Protestantism, uh, it's the question of, why does, how does this con- Protestantism tie into this? Somebody. Bius said that God was forced to give us grace to correspond to that natural inclination. Something like that. There you are, you see? The, i- if you say that the natural intellect has a handle on God i- God as God, what you're bli- you're doing is blurring grace and nature. You're saying that grace is built into nature. You're saying there's got to be... If you say that this goes to that, then you're saying that there's some blue in the natural inclination. In other words, you're saying that there's graces built into nature. And what, where did Bius take that? What, what did Bius do with saying that... It comes from the Calvinist idea that, uh, there's predestination in heaven, and therefore to reach that end, which is a supernatural end, God has given me for sure all the help that I will need. That sounds, that sounds, that sounds... That could be right. I mean, I'm sorry, I should be able to tell you, but, uh, that sounds right. So, th- the Calvinists got it wrong for one reason, uh, because the Calvinists wanted to get it... got it wrong because they wanted to affirm that grace is built into us because we are the elect. And then, the, the modernists get it wrong for another reason, but it's the same error and it's the same material of error. They get it wrong because the modernists want to blur grace and nature. They're, they want to say that everybody has grace built into them, which is exactly what John Paul II says. Grace is built into everybody, grace is built into nature. We're all built, we're all born with what I call granatus. Granatus, which is, um... Granatus. Hold on. G-R-A-N-A-T-U-R... Doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo. N-A-T-U-R... Granatus. In other words, we aren't all, we aren't all just born with nature, we're born with granatus, which is a total blend of grace and nature. So, you see why the modernists use this issue in order to arrive at the blurring of grace and nature. Because if they affirm that the purely natural inclination can have a supernatural object, they're, they're, they're denying the, the dividing line between grace and nature, which is what they want to do. So, to use all the quotations of St. Thomas Aquinas saying that, "The, uh, th- the creative intellect has a natural desire to see God as he is in Himself." And that the principle behind that is that every effect desires to rise as high as its cause. Uh, it's true, it's true, but it's only materially that this, the, the supreme cause of this natural intellect is supernatural. There's no way in which the purely natural intellect can... Therefore, what, what St. Thomas says is that the, that what the Thomists, and how the inter- the Thomists interprets Saint Thomas is to say that the... firstly, the intellect has no instinctive push towards a supernatural object. And that, of course, is, is true. It cannot have an instinctive push, just like if I was thrown out of the window, I have an instinctive push to fall. It's just, it's... On the contrary, says Saint Thomas, uh, says the Thomists, so there can be no instinctive push of a natural faculty to a supernatural object. There cannot be. There cannot be. It's just the laws of being. It's the laws of formation and inclination. It's just the laws of being. But, therefore, there's no instinctive push. On the other hand, there is an illicit, illicit, meaning I think about it, I... it's not instinctive, but I think about it when I'm told, when I'm, when I'm told, when I realize that God is much more than just, the triangle is much more than just the space shield, then I say, "Gee-whiz, wouldn't it be great to see God?" So that's an illicit... The, the mind, then, then, then there's a, an illicit desire. The, the, the intellectual creature has an illicit inclination on the basis of what he's told. He's told, I'm told, somebody tells me, "It's..."Somebody tells me, "God is much more than just a space shield." "Oh, gee, whiz. In that case, I'd love to see him." Yeah, that, that, that's perfectly reasonable. I can give him some extra information on the basis of which I have an extra desire, yes. But again, it's, it's an elicit, in a, an elicit, therefore it's not instinctive. I have an instinctive push to know the space shield, but I only have an elicit push to know God is God. Right? The rational creature has an instinctive push to know the space shield with his mind, but he only has an elicit push to know God, the first cause, if he's anything more than just a space shield. It's an elicit desire and secondly it's an inefficacious desire. That is to say, it's, it's a desire... Oh, I... Gee, whiz, I'd love to see him if it was possible. I don't know whether it is possible. (coughs) I'd love to see him if it was possible and, um, because I don't know whether it is possible. I can't be sure that it is possible. I... If I'm smart I know that I've only got a brown faculty. So if somebody tells me that there's much, something much more to the first cause than just a brown space shield, I'd say, "Well, if, if, if he were willing to show me, I'd love to see him as he is." So all that there is by way of natural inclination in the rational creature to see God as God is... All that there is is an elicit and inefficacious desire. That, that observes the laws of being. That, that's, that's the Thomistic answer. Thomas himself never worked it out as clearly as that because, I mean, Thomas didn't work out all questions, but the Thomists coming after him needed to work this one out under the push of Protestants, the Protestants and the Calvinists, and then they needed to repeat that answer under the push of the Modernists. How did the Modernists dismiss Thomas, the Modernists and Neo-Modernists today? How did they get rid of St. Thomas? They called him... They dismiss him as... Essentialist. Ah, yes, well there's... They've got a variety of ways but one, one thing they do is they say neo-Scholasticism. (laughs) Or they call it Scholasticism or Neo-Scholasticism. How dinosaurish can you get? I mean, really. Uh, they've got a scorn for Scholasticism. Do you remember in Pascendi? They've got a scorn for Scholasticism and for Neo-Scholasticism. They, they... With their historical minds, they relativize. They succeed in pegging Thomism, "Oh, it's just a, an answer which suited the Middle Ages and then there was a revival of it at the end of the 19th century because of that silly old Leo X3 and that, and that policeman, that police... That, that, that, you know, dictator, Pius X. But now we're free and now we're adult and we've got over all of that Neo-Scholasticism," so, you know. So off he goes into the dust, into the trash bin. Uh, th- the, Thomas is reality. It's, it's... And reality doesn't change and so what the, you know, what the, the, what the neo-Scholastics worked out doesn't change. Who, what was the last, like, the last magnificent gasp of Neo-Scholasticism? Anybody? The last magnificent gasp. You may have done it in the Acts of the Magisterium. The last splendid gasp before the Modernists took over, the Neo-Modernists swamped everything. The encyclical Humani generis in 1951 of Pius XII in which he said all of these things. He said exactly that, look, Scholasticism is it, guys, because truth doesn't change and these words and this language and this tech, these, it's, it's been worked out very precisely at the cost, also, of quite a lot of blood. Theology costs blood. You get it wrong, there's going to be blood in the streets. It's, it's... You may think, you know, that you studied theology, you studied dog- dogma, Dogma 1 and dogma- and I'm afraid, you know, and also, you dear young men. I mean, you know, oh, oh, oh, oh, you are so dear. (laughs) You are so dumb. I mean, you are- (laughs) ... so dear. You are so dear is what it is. You know, you dear young man, you know? Uh, you may think that moral theology is more interesting than dogma because you can, you can see the application of moral theology, you know? I mean, that's, that's, that's practical ca- that's practical cases. But it's dogma which is decisive because dogma governs moral theology just as being governs action. Agere sequitur esse. Agere inclinatio sequitur esse forma. Form gives being and inclination is action. Every e- every action is some kind of inclination, every form is some kind of being, every being is some kind of form. Form and being go together, inclination and action go together, so moral theology is in every case determined by dogma and therefore dogma is where it's at. And you think, uh, Father Godi was ex- was expounding this question last week and one of the, um, one of the priests said, "Well, what's the, what's, what's the practical u- use of, of this?" This is the whole question of Modernism, the whole question of de Lubac and, uh, uh, these modern delinquents, Vatican II. It's all confusion of grace and nature, all granatus. And I was, uh, saying about, um, John Paul II, that his whole system is based upon a blending or confusion of grace and nature. His whole system is that human beings are built with a locked-in grace, a nature that has grace locked in. Therefore when men sin, all that they do is put a dent in their granatus. Sin just puts a nasty little sort of dent. Oh, it makes it look a little bit less nice.So the redemption becau-... Why has it only put a little dent in Granatus? Because God is so good, because God is love, love, love, love. So since God is love, love, love, then Granatus was only a little bit dented, but Granatus was very naughty, so Jesus died on the cross in order to make it up to the Father. So then the, the dent... Jesus with his cross takes the dent out of Granatus and the Father is happy again. The Father feels good again. That's the system of theology of John Paul II. And of course, it follows from that that everybody is saved. And again, because he believes in Formatio, that everybody is saved, he goes in formatio all over the world looking goofy and, and, and sh- exchanging hats and smiling at everybody and being sweet and so on. I'm caricaturing obviously, I'm being nasty, but this is the basis of it. I mean, you know, we pray for the, we pray for the pope here, we do believe he's pope. I mean, I, I certainly believe he is pope. Rightly or wrongly, I believe he's pope. But, uh, and I respect him as such, but when I want to say how crazy the whole thing is today, I don't mind caricaturing and making an utter idiot of the whole thing, because only if you highlight the idiocy can you see just how grotesque it all is. And yet when he writes these huge encyclicals, he manages to disguise Granatus as... he manages to talk for, for pages and pages and pages about it more or less in old-fashioned language, so that unless you know what's going on, you can't pick it out. It's incredible. Absolutely incredible. Because he thinks that he is simply developing the same doctrine just a little bit further, he's taking the doctrine a little bit further but it's the same doctrine. He does not believe that Granatus contradicts previous Catholic doctrine. Incredible. Absolutely incredible. The devil has done a masterpiece of deceiving. And, you know, he's got a, he's got a good academic mind. I mean, he's good with books, he can read a book and start standing on his head and play all kinds of word games, you know? I mean, he's, he's got a good mind that way. But in any ordinary way he's completely dumb. He's completely dumb. So the moral of the story is that, that theology count-... theolic dogma matters, you know? And, um, it matters on the bottom line more than moral theology. I mean, you may enjoy moral theology more or you may find it more-... it will be easier to understand, and you may find these abstract questions difficult to understand, but that's where it's at, unfortunately. It's a shame. I wish the action was somewhere where it's a little simpler to understand, but, um, this is it. So this illicit a- illicit unification desire is crucial in order to maintain the difference between... the huge difference between grace and nature. For instance, elsewhere in question 113 of the Prima Segundus, Saint Thomas will say, "The least little movement in the order of grace outweighs the totality of created nature." The least little movement in the order of grace. In other words, one Ave Maria prayed in the state of grace weighs heavier than the entire Rockies put together. Not only than the entire Rockies put together, one Ave Maria prayed in the state of grace weighs heavier than, than, than the whol-... th- than, than the whole of the Milky Way put together. That's the enormous difference between the order of grace and the order of nature. There's a total intrinsic, absolute difference. But that's what they want to blur, because they want to say man is divine, they want to say that man is a superb, dignified, worthy, great, admirable, adorable creature. We... In other words, they want to say that man is God. So man has got grace built into his nature, man has got the divine built into his nature such that he can't lose it. The divine as divine, not just the divine by, um, the, the natural divine but the supernatural divine is built into our nature. That's how great we are. That's the modern idea. Completely false. But from that flow a cascade of false consequences. So this, this question is enormous. All right. And you resolve it on this principle. What you've got in that question is a clash of two principles. One pr- one principle is that every, um, every intellect wants to know the cause of every effect. Every... Whenever an intellect knows an effect, it naturally wants to know the cause. That's true. And the other principle is that every inclination follows a form. The one seems to... The one principle seems to go from a natural knowledge to God himself, and the other principle says, "No, the natural knowledge can only go to God as a space shield." But then the Thomists work it out with great exactness over hundreds of years, and Gary Gould just gives that classical Thomist answer which is sure, absolutely certain, sh- absolutely sure that you're right. So... All right. Uh, so heresy is blood. Uh, the poor modern world is sick with heresy, believe it or not. It's not sick for lack of drains, it's not sick for lack of enough computers, it's not sick for Y2K, it's not sick for...... lack of medicine or... It's- it's not sick with... It's sick with heresy. That's what the modern- the modern world's problem is heresy. It's- it's not even sick with, um, breaking the Ten Commandments. I mean, uh, understand me rightly, of course, they're sick with that, but the sickness with breaking the Ten Commandments follows upon the sickness of heresy. So that's why in a classical seminary, your... so much time and trouble and agony is spent teaching dogma. And that's why dogma is so important. It's- it's a pain in the neck, but, um, it's absolutely essential. So, you know, even if you don't understand that dogma is important, do believe it because, um, because it is. Uh, if you, if you get into an ar- th- th- the today's modernists and today's... People are not easy to argue with today. Their minds are gone. Most people can't argue, they can't think. Most people can't think. They can't begin to think. Their minds have been deliberately unhooked so that nothing pulls on anything else. They can't, they can't connect up any two ideas and then follow them through. It's incredible. Their minds have been deliberately unhooked. And people have wanted their minds to be unhooked, because if their minds are unhooked from reality, then, of course, their wills are unhooked from the Ten Commandments and say, "Okay, if I'm alright from the Ten Commandments, then, of course, I can do what I like." That's what people want. People want to be unhooked from reality and they got what they want. And not many people today want to be hooked back to reality. But if you want to hook them back to reality, the- the heart of the reality to which you will hook- hook them back is dogma. I mean, is- that is... Real- the dogma is simply the statement of reality. It's not reality. It's the statement of reality. It's the organized and purified by centers and centers of thinking, it's the organized, purified, exact statement of natural and supernatural reality. That's what dogma is. Most people don't want reality just as they don't want truth. (Latin). Men today don't want things or the thing, the reality. (Latin). They don't want the truth. It's a sad state of affairs. And the most important thing is to pray. You ha- you and I have to pray for love of the truth. It's not enough to know the truth, you have to love the truth. If you don't love the truth, you may know it, but you'll lose it. If you love error, or if you love the consequences of error, if you love things that go against the will of God, sooner or later, either the mind will purify the will or the will will corrupt the mind, one or the other. Because a man can't live divided in diff- indefinitely. Either the mind will pull... The mind that knows the truth will pull the will up to wanting the good, or the, uh, the will that wants evil will pull the mind down to knowing error. And that's why you saw last year so often S- St. Paul connects the knowing of error and the practicing of immorality. Error and immorality go intimately together, and truth and morality go intimately together. I can't, uh, pick out a few... If I knew, I'd pick out... You could pick out s- many, many places with St. Thomas, uh, St. Paul, where he connects error in the mind with immorality. That's why, that's why it's not enough to do moral theology. You may learn everything that's right, everything that's right, everything that's wrong, everything that's wrong, but if you don't know what's true and what's false, your right and wrong are not gonna be founded. Truth and falsehood are the foundation of right and wrong, not the other way around. Not the other way around. So... All right. Uh, heresy ends in blood. Uh, verse 5, "And I heard an angel, the angel of the waters, the living waters flowing from the throne of God, saying, 'Thou art just, O Lord, who art and who wast holy and who hast thus judged.' Because the- they have shed the blood of the saints and the prophets." Arnold of Brescia, I said to you, Abelard in the theology rooms this week, Arnold of Brescia on the streets of Rome a few weeks later, or a few months later, a few years later, that's e- e- inevitably how it is. On the contrary, if you teach the truth in the theology rooms, you're gonna get insanity on the streets. You're gonna get people obeying the Ten Commandments on the streets. So, uh, "And thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy. And I heard another from the altar saying..." Did we look at verse 7? "Another angel..." The heretics... Verse 6, "The heretics' shed us the blood and said they must drink it in hell." Did we see verse 7? Uh, not yet. "I- I saw... I- I heard another angel," verse 7, "from the altar saying..." Another angel is the saints. In this case, it's the saints. "Speaking from the altar." In other words, speaking sincerely from the innermost sanctuary of their hearts. "Even thus, O Lord God Omnip- Almighty, true and just are their judgments." That's an important thing to remember today, because this... With the world going cr- crazy, and it's going to go a lot more crazy yet, everything indicates-Uh, don't let people tell you that God doesn't know what He's doing, or that God is resigned, or that God is too weak, or that God has got it wrong or anything like that. No, the judgments of God in this terrible situation that we're all now living through are entirely exact and just. They're true and just, His judgments. They're mysterious, but they're true and just. And the obvious truth and justice is that the corrupt people deserve it. The corrupt people deserve a corrupt president, a corrupt government, corrupt judges, corrupt school teachers, corrupt university professors. I'm afraid that's what the people want today. They don't want the truth and therefore, this horrible mess is what they want. They want Clinton, believe it or not. They really do, because Clinton represents liberty from God, liberty from the old Christian religion. I quoted you the other day... Can you very... Can you remember that quote of, um, uh, Bella Abzug, or was it Betty Friedan? I gave you two quotes from a, a... Betty Friedan and then, uh, Dershowitz, two Jews, of course. I read them out in class. Does anyone remember? Anybody remember? Um, one was about all those awful old White men. Didn't it... Does anybody... Does that ring a bell? All those awful old White men, all those awful old Christian White men. If we vote against Clinton, we're voting for all those awful old Christian White men. That, that was the, uh, Betty Friedan or, or she said something like, you know, for... Then we're going... She says something like, of course, if we vote... A vote... It was in The Wander, I remember. I think it was Sovereign. I think it was Sovereign. I'm pretty sure it was Sovereign. It'll be in The Wander about a month, or a mou- or five, six weeks ago. Uh, a vote against Clinton is a vote for the prehistoric sexist, uh, ages, uh, ancient ages, something like that. That's the way in which these minds think. And of course, it's two Jews, poor things. Uh, and that... A- a- a- and Clinton is the triumph of the anti-Christian way of life, and the Christian way of life is getting worn out. It had a noble, uh, defender in, uh, in Henry Hyde. Henry Hyde is a good man. And the Republicans in, in, in the House of Representatives did a good job of making sure that the Senate would have to face up to the question. But then in the Senate, all the Democrats, without fail, voted in defense of Clinton, whereas a few of the Republicans voted for him. And so, of course, because the D- And then the, uh, the Democrats turn around and accuse the Republicans of party politics, and in the media, they get away with it. All these things tell you that, uh, the people want this corruption. They tell me that the people want this corruption. It's, it's not accidental. It's deliberate. So the, the judgments of God are just upon our naughty and wicked world. Verse eight, "And a fourth angel..." Th- This, these are... We jump... Once more, age one, two, three, we jump four, five, six. The preachers against the Antichrist. "The fourth angel," in verse eight, "is the... uh, poured out his fire... his vial." The fourth plague, the preachers against the Antichrist, who is a false sun, S-U-N. Of course, uh, if you pronounce it sun, then you'll know. Then, uh, I mean, sun and sun, you'd know the difference. But of course, if you talk English, then you don't... you can't tell the difference. (laughs) So that's why I had to spell it out S-U-N. Okay. "The fourth angel poured out his vial..." Uh, uh, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo. "And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun," S-U-N, "and it was given unto him to afflict men with heat and fire." So the, uh, the sun is the Antichrist. He's a false sun. The sun is the Antichrist who... It was given to him, uh, uh, to afflict men with heat and fire. The preachers against the Antichrist is the false sun. The Antichrist will simply become still more cruel. When the Christian preachers preach against the Antichrist, he is simply going to... His only reaction will be to become still more cruel. "And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and it was given unto him to afflict men with heat and fire." Uh, we won't get any further than that today, but Thursday, we will, um, advance again. We will advance in chapter 15.