Take a completely different piece of paper because we're now gonna look at the Apocalypse today. (footsteps) I'm getting, I'm feeling Christmasy. (laughs) So instead, we're going to look at some Messianic prophecies. (footsteps) You may, if you like, use green and red ink. (laughs) One, early times. Two, Davidic times. Three, prophets. Spelt, although it's Christmas, O-P-H-E and no, not O-F-I. Uh, prophets. O-P-H-E and not O-F-I. Got it? (laughs) Prophets, P-R-O-P-H-E-T-S. (laughs) As opposed to P-R-O-F-I-T-S. See? P-R-O-F-I-T-S- (laughs) ... is what Christmas is really all about. We all know that, right? So still, we're gonna go in for the P-R-O-P-H-E-T-S. Okay. Genesis 3:14-15. That's the famous prophecy, uh, of the s- serpent and Eve. "The Lord God said that..." This is the very first, it's called the Protoevangel or the, the, the Protogospel, the very beginnings of the gospel, the very first announcement of the coming of the Messiah. "The Lord God said to the serpent, 'Because thou has done this thing, thou are cursed among all cattle and beasts of the earth. Upon thy breast shalt thou go and earth shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. I will put enmities between thee and the woman and thy seed and her seed. She shall crush thy head, and thou shalt lie and wait for her heel." Uh, in any case, the seed of the woman, Eve, refers to Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ is gonna crush Satan. Uh, she shall, or she shall crush thy head. The seed of Eve is going to crush the head of Satan. "And thou shall lie and wait for her heel." So the restorer of the salvation of men will descend from Adam by a woman. The s- restorer of salvation to men will descend from Adam by a woman, and will conquer Satan. Genesis 3:14-15. (papers rustling) Genesis 9:26-27. This is the three sons of Noah. Noah tastes of the fruit of the grape, uh, without anybody having warned him that it would be alcoholic. Unfortunately, there was no, uh, government can announcing that if he ever, if he ever got- (laughs) ... if he ever got pregnant, his child in his womb would be in trouble. (laughs) So for lack of a wa- modern, wise government warning him against the dangers of alcohol with every beverage that he would take, uh, for lack of that, he fell down and uncovered his, uh, nakedness. And two of his sons covered him up, and the third son made fun of him. "And Noah, when he wake, awakened from the wine when he had..." vine, "when he had learned what his youngest son had done to him, he said, 'Cursed be Canaan! A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.'" That's highly racist and highly politically incorrect. But there it is in scripture. "And he said, 'Blessed be the Lord God of Sem! Be Canaan his servant.'" Blessed be the Lord God of Sem is the next prophecy the Messiah is going to be of the race of Sem. He is, in other words, going to be a Semite, which is highly politically correct. The Messiah is going to be a Semite. Genesis 9:26. "May God enlarge Japheth, and may he dwell in the tents of Sem." That's all of the Gentiles who are going to live in the church set up by the Semite. The Japhetites, that's you and me, most of us, are going to live in the tents of Sem, in the Catholic Church, which was originally Jewish. The Gentiles are going to dwell in and profit by the church of the Semite, which is the Church of Jesus Christ. "And Canaan be his servant." So Canaan is gonna be this slave of Japheth and Sem. Sem is going to be of the, the, uh, the, the, will be the ancestor of the Messiah, and Japheth will enlarge his, will be enlarged. Japheth will dominate the world till he apostatizes. Genesis 12:3. "And the Lord said to Abraham, 'Go forth out of thy country and from thy kindred and out of thy father's house and come into the land which I shall show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee and magnify thy name, and thou shall be blessed.'" Verse 3. "And I will bless them that bless thee and curse them that curse thee. And in thee shall all the kindred of the earth be blessed." Genesis 12:3. The Messiah is going to be a descendant of Abraham.Also, Genesis 18:18, Genesis 22:18. Same thing. The Messiah will be a descendant of Abraham, that's a promise of God. Genesis 26:4, verse 1, "And when a famine came in the land, after that barrenness which had happened in the days of Abraham, Isaac went to Abimelech, king of the Palestines, to Gerar. And the Lord appeared to him," to Isaac, "'And said, 'Go now down to Egypt, but stay in the land that I shall tell thee, and sojourn in it, and I will be with thee and will bless thee. For to thee and to thy seed, I will give all of those countries to fulfill the oath which I swore to Abraham thy father.''" Verse 4, "'And I will multiply thy seed like the stars of heaven, and I will give to thy posterity all these countries, and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.''" Genesis 26:4, the Messiah will be a descendant of Isaac. (sniffs) Abraham had various children. Amongst those children, it's Isaac who will be the ancestor of the Messiah. Genesis 28:14, verse 12, "Jacob saw in his sleep a ladder standing upon the earth, and the top thereof touching heaven, the angels also of God ascending and descending by it, and the Lord leaning upon the ladder, saying to him, 'I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father and the God of Isaac. The land wherein thou sleepest I will give to thee and to thy seed.'" Verse 14, "'And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. Thou shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. And in thee and thy seed, all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed.'" Sh- Genesis 28:14, the Messiah will be a descendant of Jacob. Isaac had various sons, or at least two, Esau and Jacob, and the, uh, Messiah will be a child of Jacob, not a child of Esau. That's further precision. Genesis 49, who can tell me what that is? Genesis 49. Jacob 49. That's right. And why would it concern us? Judah. S- that's right, yes. It's, it's Jacob, uh, before he dies, um, blessing all his sons and saying what their various fates will be, or what they'll... s- giving, prophesying for each of them. He prophesies concerning Judah, which will be the favorite tribe, or the, the, the privileged tribe. Amongst the 12 tribes, Judah will be privileged. Genesis 49:1-10, 8-9-10, "And Jacob called his sons and said to them, 'Gather yourselves together that I may tell you the things that shall befall you in the last days. Gather yourselves together and hear, O ye sons of Jacob. Harken to Israel, your father.''" Israel equals Jacob. Reuben, uh, that's verses three and four, uh, "'Thou art my strength and the beginning of my sorrow.'" (clears throat) (laughs) Uh, Simeon and Levi, uh, verse eight, Judah, "'Thee shall thy brethren praise. Thy hands shall be on the necks of thy enemies. The sons of thy father shall bow down to thee." Verse nine, "'Judah is a lion's whelp. To the prey, my son, thou art gone up. Resting, thou has couched as a lion, and as a lioness who shall rouse... and as a lioness, who shall rouse him?" Ten, "'The scepter shall not be taken away from Judah, nor a ruler from his thigh, till he come that is to be sent, and he shall be the expectation of nations.'" That's a very clear, very, very clear Messianic prophecy, verse 10 especially. The Messiah will be of the tribe of Judah. He will hold a scepter, S-C-E-P-T-R-E, or E-R. He will hold a scepter. Judah, "'Thee shall thy brethren praise. Thy hands shall be on the necks of thy enemies. The sons of thy father shall bow down to thee.'" Uh, all nations will render him homage. All nations will render to Judah homage. It's obviously not Judah himself, because that, that never, never happened to Judah, but it will happen to his descendant. It's the Messiah. All nations will render him homage. And so he will be a pacifier, he will be a king of peace or a lord of peace. Judah will lose its supremacy around the time he comes. "The scepter shall not be taken away from Judah, nor a ruler from his thigh, till he come that is to be sent." So Judah has still a... um, but soon after it loses its... And all the tribes were confused and J- Judah was of no significance any longer, except of course, Judah gave its name to Judea and Judaic, Judaism. All of those words for Jewishness today are taken from the tribe of Judah. Uh-Numbers 24:17. (ding) We jump on. Mm-hmm. This is, uh... Uh, this is, one moment, um... Balaam, the pagan Balaam, prophesying concerning the children of Israel, concerning Israel. Balaam was summoned by King Balak in order to curse Israel. And he stood on a mountain overlooking the hosts of Israel in the plain and he opened his mouth and instead of curses coming out, blessings came out, which didn't greatly please Balak. Uh, "If Balak-" 13, "Would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord, my God, to utter anything on my own head, either good or evil. For whatsoever the Lord shall say, that I will speak. But yet going to my people, I will give the counsel what this people should do to thy people in the latter days." "Therefore, taking up his parable again, he said, 'Balaam, the son of Beor, hath said, the man whose eye who is, is stopped up hath said... "' Verse 16, "'The hearer of the words of God hath said, who knoweth the doctrine of the Highest, and seeth the visions of the Almighty, who falling hath his eyes opened.'" 17, "'I shall see him, but not now, I shall behold him, but not near, a star shall rise out of Jacob, and a scepter shall spring up from Israel, and shall strike the chiefs of Moab, and shall waste all the children of Seth. And he shall possess," uh, 18, "possess Edom." Right, this is the star of, uh, r- star of Jacob. He will enlighten, the, the Messiah will enlighten the world. A star shall rise. The Messiah will enlighten the world. He will hold a scepter. He's going to be a king of a kingdom. Numbers 24, verse 17, "A scepter shall spring up from Israel and shall strike the chiefs of Moab, and shall waste all the children of Seth." This, the Messiah will, uh, break up God's enemies, will break God's enemies. Of course, that we know has a spiritual meaning. The Jews, by the scribes and Pharisees, by the time of our Lord, gave it, of course, a materialistic meaning. But you and I know that it, it's, it has a spiritual meaning. The best of the Jewish interpreters will also, will also have given it a spiritual meaning. But that spiritual meaning was progressively lost down to the time of our Lord himself, by when they were expecting nothing more no less than somebody to smash the Romans. And that's what they wanted Jesus to be. That's what they couldn't forgive him for not being, and that's why they crucified him for not being. Uh, so, uh, the, the Messiah will break up the enemies of God. Deuteronomy 18:15-18. Deuteronomy 15:15-18. This is Moses speaking, Moses instructing the people. "And when thou sendest him out free, thou shalt not let it go empty, but shall give him for his way out of thy flocks, and out of thy barn floor, and thy wine press, wherewith the Lord thy God shall bless thee." That's Moses' particular, lots of particular instructions, what's called the Mosaic Legislation. 15, "Remember that thou also was the bond servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God made thee free, and therefore I now command thee this. But if, but if he say, 'I will not depart,' because he loveth thee in thy house, and findeth that he is well with thee..." I'm sorry, what I'm, what, I'm in the wrong chapter. I beg your pardon. 18, I'm in the wrong chapter. Verses 15-18. Those, (clears throat) uh, "For the Lord abhorreth all these things, but for these abominations, he will destroy them at thy coming. Thou shalt be perfect and without spot before the Lord thy God. These nations whose land thou shalt possess, hearken to soothsayers and diviners, but thou art otherwise instructed by the Lord their God." This is Moses talking to the Israelites, how they must behave amongst the pagans. Verse 15, "The Lord thy God will raise up to thee a prophet of thy nation and of thy brethren, like unto me, him thou shalt hear. As thou desirest of the Lord thy God in Horeb, when the assembly was gathered together and saidst, 'Let me not hear any more the voice of the Lord my God, neither let me see anymore this exceeding great fire, lest I die.'" You were listening to that the other day. "'And the Lord said to me, "They have spoken all things well."' I- 18, "'I will raise them up a prophet out of the midst of their brethren, like to thee, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I shall command him. And he that will not hear his words, which he shall speak in my name, I will be the revenger." That's verses, uh, uh, 15 to 19 of Deuteronomy 8- Chapter 18. This is Moses talking about, prophesying the Messiah. The Messiah is going to be the supreme prophet, the supreme prophet, P-R-O-P-H-E-T. "I will raise them up a prophet out of the midst of their brethren. I will put my words in his mouth and he shall speak to them all that I shall command him. Him thou shalt hear." The Messiah is going to be the supreme prophet. He will be a liberator, mediator, and legislator like Moses. He will be a lib- uh, liberator, mediator, and legislator like Moses. But he will surpass Moses because Moses will listen to him.Him thou shalt hear. The Lord thy God will raise, raise up to be a prophet with a nation and of thy brethren like unto me. Him thou shalt hear. Moses himself is going to listen to this prophet, so he will, he will be the supreme prophet, liber- liberator, mediator, and legislator like Moses, but surpassing Moses. Moses will listen to him. Perdy? Um, do you know why, um, the Jews thought that the prophet was going to be different person? Uh, they expected him to be a sort of superman. Uh, they expected John the Baptist to be Robin, and the two of them- (laughs) ... would smash the Romans. They had a thoroughly materialistic view of the Messiah by the time the Messiah came, and the, the pure doctrine of the Old Testament was corrupted by the scribes and Pharisees. Out of pride and sh- and na- and nationalism and, uh, arrogance, "We're going to rise up and smash the Gentiles and take over the world as we deserve to." Right? That's, that's the main reason why they refused him. And then- That would cause them to think that, that, uh, the prophet was another (...) But you see, uh, just let me remind you, John, "Art thou the prophet," it was the gospel of the first Sunday of, the second Sunday of Advent. Um, "Art thou the prophet?" It's exactly this, this prophecy. "Art thou Elias? Art thou..." uh, where is it? Um, "And they asked him, 'What then? Art thou Elias?' He said, 'I'm not.' 'Art thou the prophet?' And he answered, 'No.'" That's John 1:21, right? "Art thou the prophet?" So they were expecting the prophet. Because of the, uh, chronology and the prophecy of Daniel, they were expecting the Messiah around the time of Christ, and several false messiahs had already arisen. Why did they not believe that he was the Messiah? Another thing, he came from Galilee. I mean, nobody, if there's anybody, comes from Galilee. (laughs) Galilee is the pits, you know, I mean, really. That's another reason, seriously, why they didn't, they never... What good can come out of Galilee, for goodness sakes? Richard? Why did they think that the prophet would be different from the conquering Christ? Did they think it would be two different people? Um, why did they think the prophet would be different from the conquering Christ? I don't see the... What makes you th- say they would be, that, that they separate, the Jews separated the two? From three specific passages before this. Uh- Before that, they asked John about two passages. You said it was not the Christ. Well- Then they said, "Why, are you not the Christ?" Uh, th- th- they, th- the Jews have got various, uh, sort of expectations. The Messiah is the anointed one, so, "Are y- are you the Messiah?" Then he says no. Then, "Are you the prophet?" The prophet might be different, might be different from the Messiah. Might. Now, we, we... And of course, the prophecies were only absolutely clear after, after the event. We now know clearly that the one that Moses is talking about is the Messiah, right? But they, the Jews are, are covering all their bases by asking all of the, you know, "Who... Just in case." I mean, it's not, it's said clearly that here that the prophet will be the Messiah. I don't think so. All right? Um, all right. Davidic times, the Books of Kings and the Psalms, 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, three Kings, four Kings, and the Psalms. 1 Samuel 2:10, 1 Samuel 2:10. Let me see. "The adversaries of the Lord shall fear him." Um, uh, "And upon them sh- shall he thunder in the heavens. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth and he shall give empire to his king and shall exalt the horn of his Christ." Um, this is, uh, this is the Canticle of Anna. Anna was the barren woman who went up to the temple always in tears and the priest finally said to her, um, uh, "What's the trouble, mom?" (laughs) And she said, "Well, I'm not mom." (laughs) "I need, I need a child." So the, the priest said, "All right. Don't worry. Just go on praying and I'm sure the Lord will h- hear you." And sure enough, she became pregnant. She's pregnant with Samuel, and she speaks a canticle of joy at having at last conceived a son, which is the model of the chi- of the Magnificat of the Mother of God. Only the Old Testament Magnificat is longer and it's more complicated, but, but it's definitely... it's very clearly, uh, an influence. So, the Mother of God, expecting the Messiah, follows her predecessor, Anna. And it's interesting to compare the two. The New Testament is ra- the, the Magnificat of the Mother of God is rather simpler, but this, there is clearly a connection. So, um, Anna Prophet says, "The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich. He humbleth and he exalteth. He raiseth up the needy from the dust and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill that he may sit with princes and hold the throne of glory. For the poles of the earth are the Lord's and upon them, he has set the world." Uh-...
This is the Lord... The Lord God instructing the prophet Nathan what he is to tell David. And Nathan is to tell David, "From the day that I appointed judges over my people Israel," this is verse 11, "I will give thee rest from all thy enemies and the law foretelleth to thee that the Lord will make thee a house. And when thy days shall be fulfilled..." This is Nathan speaking to David. "David, when your life is over, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I, the Lord God, will raise up thy seed after thee, David, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom." Therefore, this verse says that the Messiah is going to be the son of David. It's a very important point. The Messiah will be a child of David. He'll be a descendant of David. We had a descendant of Abraham, a descendant of Isaac, a descendant of Jacob. Uh, 2 Samuel, which in 10 is two kings. 2 Samuel 7:12. Page 10-3:26. Bottom of the left... the right-hand column. "Thou shall sleep with thy fathers. I will raise up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, out of thy loins, and I will establish his kingdom. I, God, will establish the kingdom of the Messiah of thy son." This, uh, uh, Challoner notes, "This prophecy partly related to Solomon, but much more to Christ, who is called the Son of David in Scripture and who is the builder of the true temple, which is the church's everlasting kingdom, which shall never fail." That's a... That's an example of a prophecy with a double fulfillment. And the first minor fulfillment was Solomon, the immediate son of David, who, uh, whose kingdom was established by God. The Jewish kingdom was... The kingdom of Israel was never as great as it was under Solomon. But it's more importantly, uh, a prophecy concerning Jesus Christ. "And He, He shalt be in the house to my name, and I will establish the throne of His kingdom forever. I will be to Him a Father, and He shall be to me a Son. And if He commit any iniquity, I'll correct Him with a rod of men, with the stripes of the children of men." That's not... That obviously doesn't refer to our Lord. "But my mercy, I will not take away from us. I took it from Saul, whom I removed from, from before my face. Thy house shall be faithful and Thy kingdom forever before Thy face, and Thy throne shall be firm forever." Wow, verse 16. That's the prophecy of the eternal kingdom of Jes-... It doesn't... It's... The kingdom of Solomon was not eternal. The Jews lost it in 70 A.D. But that verse 16... Verse 14 applies to Solomon, and it doesn't apply to Jesus. Verse 16 applies to Jesus, and it doesn't apply to Solomon. According to all these words and act-... According to all these visions, so did Nathan speak to David. Thirdly, the prophets. Four major prophets and 12 minor prophets given here in chronological order. Firstly, Joel. Joel 2:28-32. Famous prophecy, Peter on Pentecost. "It shall come to pass after this that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions. Moreover, upon my servants and handmaids in those days I shall pour forth my spirit, and I will show wonders in heaven and in earth, blood and fire, and vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and dreadful day the Lord doth come. And it shall come to pass that everyone that shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be salvation, as the Lord has said, and in the residue whom the Lord shall, shall call." Joel 2:28-32. Um, the Messiah will come for all men of all races, classes and conditions. Everyone that shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, even if he's politically correct or one of the politically correct races. He will come for all men of all races, classes and conditions. He will accomplish great prodigies in sun and moon. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. He will accomplish great prodigies in sun and moon, and all who call on him will be saved. Another famous prophecy, next in chronological order, Micah 5:2-5. "And now Bethlehem Ephratah are too little among the thousands of Judah. Out of these shall he come forth unto me, that is to be the ruler in Israel, and his going forth is from the beginning, from the days of eternity. Therefore will he give them up even till the time wherein she that travaileth shall bring forth and the remnant of his brethren shall be converted to the children of Israel. And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the Lord, in the height of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall be converted, for now shall he be magnified even to the ends of the earth.""And this man shall be our peace when the Assyrian shall come into our land and when he shall set his foot in our houses, and we shall raise against him seven shepherds and eight principal men." Uh, the Messiah will be born of woman in Bethlehem. "Therefore will he give them up, even till the time wherein she that travaileth shall bring forth." Of course, the mother of God did not travail in the normal sense, but still. He will be born of woman in Bethlehem, and his reign will be peaceful. "And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the Lord, in the height of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall be converted, for now shall he be magnified even to the ends of this earth, uh, the earth, and this man shall be our peace." Verse 5, "When the Assyrian shall come into our land, this man shall be our peace." The king of peace. So he's going to be born of woman, born in Bethlehem. This prophecy is what made the, the Pharisees in Jerusalem know where to send the Magi when the Magi following the star came to Jerusalem and said, "Where is he born?" And so the Pharisees said, "Well, he's, he's... it's in... the, the, the Messiah's going to be born in Bethlehem." "Thank you very much," said the Magi. Off they went. Um, that's the... here's the prophecy that told the authorities in Jerusalem where to send the Magi. Isaiah, there the quotations abound. Isaiah, the dates of Isaiah, anybody? No, before that. Around 700. He died after 700, but I think he was born before 700. 700 BC, I understand, obviously. Isaiah 2, chapters... uh, verses 2 to 4. Again, a famous prophecy about the Church, the Catholic Church. "In the last days, the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be prepared on the top of mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills and all nations shall flow unto it." That's the Catholic Church. "And many people should go and say, 'Come and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us his ways and we will walk in his paths.' For the Lord shall come forth from Zion, and the Word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Spiritual Zion, spiritual Jerusalem. "And he shall judge the Gentiles and rebuke many people, and they shall turn their swords into plowshares and their spears into sickles. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they be exercised any more to war." Again, a kingdom of peace. Uh, Isaiah 2. When he comes, when the Messiah comes, the nations will recognize the true God. When the Messiah comes, the nations will recognize the true God. The nations understand the Gentiles. The Gentiles will recognize the true God and will flock to Mount Zion, at least in a spiritual sense. They will flock to the Catholic Church, from where God's law will spread over the whole earth. How many of you, hands up all those of you who already knew that prophecy, as being a prophecy? Only two of you, three of you. Oh, and I'm glad because, uh... Have, y- have you not learned it in apologetics? You, you, you did learn this in apologetics. Uh, hands up those of you that have done apologetics. (laughs) Daniel, have you done apologetics? (laughs) All right. Isaiah 4:2-6. But I thought we only learned apologetics for the sake of the exams? (laughs) Isaiah 4:2-6, "In that day, the bud of the Lord shall be in magnificence and glory, and the fruit of the earth shall be high, and a great joy to them that shall have escaped of Israel. And it shall come to pass that everyone that shall be left in Zion and that shall remain in Jerusalem shall be called holy, everyone that is written in life in Jerusalem. If the Lord shall wash away the filth of the daughters of Zion and shall wash away the blood of Jerusalem out of the midst thereof, by the spirit of judgment, by the spirit of burning. And the Lord will create upon every place of Mount Zion, and where he is called upon, a cloud by day and a smoke and the brightness of a flaming fire in the night. For over all the glory shall be a protection." It's obviously a reference to, um, Exodus, the pillar of fire, the desert. "And there shall be a tabernacle for shade in the daytime from the heat and for security and cover from the whirlwind and from rain." So, uh, um, uh, 2, uh, 4:2-6. The, the age of the Messiah will be of an age of unheard of glory and splendor for the remnant of Israel. The age of the Messiah... will be an age of unheard of glory and splendor for the remnant of Israel. The remnant (laughs). Joseph of Arimathea, Saint Joseph, Nicodemus, Gamaliel, uh-... who else? All the apostles, not even Judas Iscariot, a handful, a remnant amongst all of the people in... amongst all of the dwellers in Jerusalem. Well, there were then 2... 3,000 or 5,000 under Saint Peter. "In that day, the bud of the Lord shall be in magnificence and glory." That's the beginning of the Catholic Church. "And the fruit of the earth shall be high and a great joy to them that shall have escaped of Israel." That esc- that will have escaped out of Phariseeism, that will have got out of the false, the falsification of the Mosaic religion. "It should come to pass that everyone that should be left in Zion, that they shall remain in Jerusalem." That all of those who are still in the spiritual Zion, the spiritual Jerusalem, shall be called holy, everyone that is written in life in Jerusalem, everyone in the book of life. And not many of the inhabitants of Jerusalem were in the book of life. "If the Lord should wash away the filth of the doors, he'll wash away the blood of Jerusalem out of the midst, there by the spirit of burning. The Lord will create upon every place of Mount Zion and where he is called upon a cloud by day and a smoke in the brightness of a flaming fire in the night." This is a figure of the glory of the Catholic Church, which is going to lead Jews and the remnant of Israel and all the nations. "And there should be a tabernacle for shade in the daytime from the heat or for security to cover from the whirlwind from the rain." It's a splendid messianic prophecy. "The holy city, purified of its bloodshed..." Understand the Catholic Church. "Purified of its bloodshed will be inhabited only by the just. God will protect it with his power, c-cover it with his glory, protect it against all perils." If you think of the Catholic Church, it's as clear as daylight. The Pharisees obviously were applying all of that, once more, in a materialistic sense. Thus, "The holy city, purified of bloodshed, will be inhabited only by the just. God will protect it with his power, cover it with his glory, and shield it against all perils." Isaiah 7:14-15. Famous prophecy. "Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. His name shall be called Emmanuel. He shall eat butter and honey that he may know to refuse the evil and to choose the good." 7:14-15. "His mother will be a virgin. His name will be Emmanuel, meaning God with us." Raphael, Mikael, Gabri-el, Emanuel, El is God. God with us. "He will be subject to the laws of human nature. He should eat butter and honey that he may know to refuse evil and choose the good." Slight mysterious verse, but he will be subject to the laws of human nature. Isaiah 9:1-5, "At the first time, the land of Zabulon and the land of Nephi was lightly touched, and at the last, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan of the gallery of the Gentiles was heavily loaded. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. To them that dwells in the region of the shadow of the death, of death's light is risen. Thou has multiplied the nation, thou hast-hast not increased the joy. They shall rejoice before thee as they that rejoice in the harvest, as conquerors rejoice after taking a prey when they divide the spoils." Um, the Messiah will especially illuminate the territory of Naphtali and Zabulon. Those are two of the tribes of Israel and their territory corresponds, of course, Gleason, to the territory of Naphtali and Zabulon. The territory of Naphtali and Zabulon, Bryson, what's the territory of Naphtali and Zabulon? Two tribes? Galilee. Galilee is right, yes. Galilee is the later name for that territory. Naphtali- Naphtali and Zab- Zap- Naphtali and Zabulon is the- m- the two tribes that originally occupied the area of Galilee when the Israelites moved into the Holy Land. I think there's a, the class on Monday, we will cover that much more of the, of these messianic prophecies.