Never argue with a woman because they don't argue. (footsteps) They just grab the nearest piece of mud and throw it at you. (laughs) They don't argue because- (clears throat) ... they go by their hearts, they're not going by their heads. So the heart doesn't get into any logic, but they just- (clears throat) ... (clears throat) grab, the heart grabs anything that will serve. Um, some people say they, that women always fight dirty, and that's what they mean by it. Let's say they don't fight according to the rules, they couldn't care two pins about the rules. They know, they know what they want, they know what they need, and they, any argument is good that serves that purpose. So, you know, it, it's just a pretense of arguing or thinking usually. Um, there's another proverb in French, Ce que femme veut, Dieu le veut. What woman wants, God wants. And when, when she's speaking about her family, about her husband, children, or family, there's a lot of truth in that. She doesn't know often what she's saying or why... She knows things without knowing why she knows them. It's, it's called intuition. She's much stronger in intuition than the man is. She intuits things. She knows they're true by intuition, therefore she couldn't bother, she can't be bothered with the arguments. The arguments are just a waste of time because she knows what she, she, she knows by intuition, so the rest of it is a waste of time. The men can argue up and down there as much as they like, but she knows what she knows. And if she's, if it's, especially if it concerns her children, can you say she's not always right about her children? Of course, 'cause mothers can be very blind about their children, but y- y- you've got to discern. There, there's a time when they are right and that's when they're defending their young, uh, in, in the way the young should be defended. But then, of course, when they're defending their young because the young are always right, that's, that's crazy, and that's the state we get into today. But in any case, um, that's what God... God didn't make them to argue or to use arguments. He didn't make them to think. He made the men to think. He made the woman to feel. She's a creature of the heart. He's a creature of the head. They're quite different and, uh, and complementary. (clears throat) Uh, and that's why, you know, I mean, a woman lawyer is an absurdity. If she comes into court, either she looks pretty if she does or she doesn't. If she doesn't look pretty, she's not feminine. If she does look pretty, how can anyone in the court think straight? (laughs) So it- it- sh- it's a- it's- it's an, it's a lose-lose situation. It's a no-win situation. But they insist upon getting into the law and then they insist upon getting into all kinds of silly things that they, they've got no place, where God never meant them to be. Obviously, he never meant them to be in the military. He never meant them to be in law. He never meant them to be in politics, with rare exceptions. But, and then when you do get a woman who's logical, she's liable to be much more terrible than any man who's logical because she hasn't got the... she's, she's made up her mind that she, she... they don't think. It's a general rule, they don't think. I mean, you know, I don't know who's going to listen, but that's- (laughs) ... that's their, that's their problem, all right? That's, that's your problem. (laughs) Um, what is the saying? They don't think. Um... Woman who's logical is dangerous. Yes, a woman, a woman who's logical is dangerous 'cause she'll apply the logic implacably, absolutely implacably. She's got in her head the one idea that logic is a good thing. So, all right, she's gonna... or the, you know, masculinity is a good thing. Then she's gonna make herself masculine or she will, she will, uh, drop hydrogen bombs on everybody in order to prove that she's masculine. Th- there's no, there's no sense of balance or reason. When she tries to put, when she tries to put masculine software into the, you know, into the, into the computer, it just goes bananas. (laughs) Therefore, you must not admire women for being masculine. Do not admire them when they're being masculine. Admire them and encourage them when they're being feminine, not when they're fooling around or provoking to fool around, but when they're, when they're doing what God meant them to do, then admire them. It, it... a little, a little male admiration goes a long way. Oh, wow. (laughs) You know, just a little. Also, a little affection goes a long way. Uh, I mean, these are things you're going to need, you know, in the confessional. Uh, you need to know, uh, that, you know, a teaspoonful of affection, they're good for another 200 miles. It's true. (laughs) So, you know, when they, when they do all the cooking or when they, when they put together the potluck dinner, you know, you know, just make sure that you say a few words of appreciation. It makes a lot of difference. I can't say I always observe that rule myself, but it's, you know... they need that a li- a lot more than men need it. Men, oh, though there are some, you know, some men who, uh, need a bit of a- an admiration. But, uh, but, um, you know, women are built, they're oriented towards men deeper than men are oriented towards women because... and that's in scripture, "Your husband will have dominion over you." And so she's dependent upon him in a way that he's not dependent upon, in a deeper way than he is dependent upon her. Mark you, of course, um, I mean, a, a good wife is an enormous strength to a husband and a deep strength to a husband. Scripture again says that. "Who shall find the, the wife... who shall find a strong woman? She is more precious than..." et cetera, Proverbs 31. A good wife is an extraordinary, an enormous treasure, and a bad wife is a, a martyrdom.But... So it goes deep both ways, but there is a dependency on the side of the woman which there isn't, there isn't on the side of the man. And, and therefore they keep coming back. They'll keep coming back towards men. The feminists liberated themselves, quote unquote, from men, about 20 years ago, and then 10 years, f- 10, 15 years later all the feminist magazines are full of how, tricks how to get back towards the men because they, they can't do without them. It's too deep. And, um, and therefore a man can be very cruel, a hu- a husband can be very cruel to his wife if he, if she keeps coming back to him and he, you know, whips her or beats her with a stick. It's like a dog coming back to its master and the dog ju- the master just beating the dog. Uh, of course, I'm not comparing wives to dogs. I'm not comparing wives to dogs. (laughs) But, but, uh, that's why St. Paul says, "Husbands, love your wives," because, uh, and, and don't be harsh to... Oh, no. He says, and, uh, and don't be harsh towards them. Is that wives or children? Uh, children. Children, but it, it applies to wives, too. Uh, a woman, on the other hand, is very cruel to her husband if she doesn't admire him. The husband needs to be admired or respected, looked up to. His ego, male ego. Um, the woman needs to be loved. That's the enormous and crucial difference between men and women. So... And these things you need to know in the confessional because, because there are many souls out there who are trying to run a marriage on the wrong program. They're trying to run a Catholic marriage on a liberal program, with a liberal idea of what a man should be and a liberal idea of what a woman should be. You can't run a Catholic marriage on liberal ideas of man and woman. You can't do it. So you've got to have an idea of Catholic man and Catholic woman in order to guide these poor liberals back to their places in which there's much more chance of a Catholic marriage working, obviously, if they've got, uh... You know, there are exceptions to all rules. There are, um, s- there are men who absolutely need the woman to wear the trousers. Uh, and if you find a l- such a man altogether with a woman who's willing to wear the trousers, that's fine. But today, broadly speaking, the women ha- have... Many of the women who are wearing the trousers don't basically want to do it, and they shouldn't want to do it and many of them don't want to do it. They're j- All they ask for is for their husbands to start wearing the trousers again. But the liberal men have been persuaded that, that if they wear the trousers then that's un- against equality, it's against feminine rights, it's against... They got all kinds of silly ideas in their heads, so you ha- you need to know. So what St. Paul... What St. What Scripture says about the family is crucial. So what Scripture says about man and woman is crucial because this is the word of God. So he says to wives, "Be submissive to your husbands." Hey, that's, that's not just paternalism. It's not sexism. It's not colonialism. It's not fascism. Uh, it, it's not antisemitism. It's the word of God. "Wives, be submissive to your husbands." God says so. And, and it's not just St. Peter here, it's obviously in the Epistles of St. Paul as well. And then, "Husbands, uh, look after your wives. Give honor. Behave chivalrously to your w-" "As to the weaker vessel." Yes, they are weaker, uh, in physical strength. They're far smarter in wiles. They're far stronger in smarts, people smarts. Women are stronger. They can run around. They can... Most of them can run rings around their husbands when it comes to navigating. Um, God made it that way for a very good reason because if the, if besides being weaker the women were also dumber, the men would simply crush them. So they're weaker, but smarter, at least people smarter. Not logic smarter, but people smarter. That's a different thing. And so they get their husbands sized up. They know their husband. They can read their husbands. You, most of them, they can read their husbands, you know, like the palm of their hand, most of them. And they can work around. They work around him. They work around what he wants. And poor modern woman is having to work around modern man. I blame modern man, principally, for the mess we got into today. Of course woman bears her share of the blame, but she's basically a follower. And I'm sure you've heard me say many times, if today she is, uh, wearing the trousers, she's still following the men because it's the man who wants her to wear the trousers because it's the man, liberal man doesn't want responsibility. He just wants to be... If she c- She'll look after self. The children are adults. The children will look after themselves. Then I don't have to bother. I don't have to behave like a father. I don't... etc., etc. And that's the problem. Uh, Father Doran, uh, can tell you about, tell you the same thing. He has, from pastoral experience in post-falls, he can tell you in many cases the problem, the woman's problem is the man's problem. The men are not men, and that's the number one problem. If you straighten out the men, you got a darn good chance of the women following afterwards. Not all of them, of course. There are s- some but... Many of them, all they want... And, uh, eh, eh, things can come straight. There's so many things today to make things go crooked, but things can come straight. There are a lot of young mothers, charming young mothers, feminine young mothers in our missions and chapels. At least on Sundays they don't wear trousers. And they come to, they come to the mission or the church or whatever and they're looking after the children. I see it this time of year with the confirmations, they go all over. Uh, they're looking after the children. They, uh, uh... So it can come straight, and the, all of the, the, the good women, all they want is to be given the right program to follow, and the right man to follow, and the right man to look up to. That's all they want, the good ones-Of course, the other ones, well, they don't like the Catholic program. They don't, because the Catholic program is humbling. You know, wearing a mantilla over the head, it's important. It's not universal in the United States, but it's better than in Europe, I think, in many countries in Europe. And then of course, I'm darn sure that wearing dresses on, at least on Sunday is better here in United States than it is in Europe. I'm told there that many of, many of the women folk wear trousers even on Sunday in Europe, which is not good. But that again, the women like to be qu- They, they think they want to be emancipated or liberated, and of course, the emancipation of woman was a great, quote-unquote, "battle" from the beginning of this century. The suffra- You had the suffragettes, and then you had women wearing trousers, and now you have the feminists. And basically, it's all, I'd venture to say, it's a protest against these, um, these gutless men, these meaningless men. And so the women have to try to take their place. And feminism is then, I say, is, it's, it's basically a protest. It's, it's a great protest. It's not what the women really want. It's not according to their nature, but they're protesting against what the men are and what, or what the men aren't, rather. Uh- Is there a connection between them and the, uh, temperance ladies? I don't know about the temperance ladies. Was that the 1920s? 1910s? Because it, it's all (murmuring) They, they were appreciated to get the men out of the bars (?). Yeah. Yeah, that's... To get the men home. The, the, you know, the, the, the wives need a minimum of time, attention, and affection from their husbands. They don't only need time, they also need attention. You've got to pay attention to them. You can't... And not attention, but some affection. So time, attention, and affection. S- some, and not more than some. I mean, you know, you can't... A man can't spend all his time hanging around his wife's neck. God forbid. And a man's got to do what a man has to do. But the m- the women do need the men at home, and they do need the men to concern themselves with the education of the children, and to back them in educating the children. Some of the women today are heroic in the way they're trying to home-school. They'll, having the children that God sends and then trying to home-school them. It's a big task. And if the men don't back them, if the husband doesn't back them, then it's, it's, it's more than many of them can endure. Whereas if the husband does back them, there's a, there's, there's... I say that there's, with many of them, there's hardly a limit to what they will do if their husband back, if their husband backs them and loves them and admires them and gives them a hug and so on and so on, many of them is, is on, there's, there's no limit to what they will do, because she, she has, she has sacrifice inscribed in her nature by God in a way that man doesn't. And that's bec- again, and always because of maternity, because of the children. And I, you know, I was just over at the, the, the cottage on, uh, over at the other side of the road where, uh, somebody is doing some painting. And, um- (laughs) ... there's a bird just sitting on the roof there because, uh, w- we were standing around. There's a nest with some little ones, uh, built just by the door. Uh, she was standing, sitting there watching. I mean, normally she'd fly away with people standing so close, but with her young so close, she's standing there and watching. And I'm sure if you could approach that nest and started fooling around, I don't know whether she'd have attacked. I don't... But she would certainly have kicked up a fuss. Uh, it's maternity is what's deepest in feminine nature and it's what's noblest in feminine nature. That's what God made them for. It's the prime purpose. The, they are the continuance of the human race, a function in which man doesn't play nearly such an important part, obviously. So her place is the home. It's an old-fashioned saying. The Germans had it. And of course, this is a saying which is horribly mocked today, but it's absolutely true. (German) Children, kitchen, church. What's that? Children, uh- (murmuring) That probably does (whispers). (murmuring) Whichever way around. Children, kitchen, and church. That's what the Germans say that the old, what the old-fashioned Germans said. But of course, again, industrial suburbanism throws that all out, 'cause if you want the woman to stay at home and the home is isolated and the home is not social and it's cut off from everybody else and it's boring, how do you expect an adult to spend all their time with just sc- screaming children? She can't do it. And that's... Well, many of w- many, many of them can't do it, and it's not reasonable to want them to do it. On the farm, they used to be isolated, yes, but, uh, yes, but I don't think... Not the way it is today, not in the same context as today. And that's why you get the soap operas. The soap operas which so many of the women watch, it's the, it's the substitute village. It's the substitute human interest. They're all interested in who's marrying who, who's, who's going out with who, who's on the brink of dying, who's arguing with who. It's all human interest, which is what women are for. That's their specialty, and they need that. And it's not fair to, you know, to make... Well, it's not fair to make fun of them always talking to one another, 'cause that's their business, to... They need to talk to one another about husbands and about children, especially. And in the old days, in the Victorian age, after a dinner, if the men and the women went dinner, after dinner, the men, the men went into one room to talk about politics, and the women went into another room to talk about the babies and husbands.Of course, today many women would resent that. They would say, "I want to talk about politics." Well, she'll come in and talk about politics, but she'll talk nonsense. She- she- she, you know, she- she's not going to get a hold of the right end of the stick very frequently, but she wants to be with the men. She feels the need because she's- she's not being... she- she feels she's being shut out and scorned. Uh, hell hath no fury like a woman's- (coughs) ... like a woman's scorn, you know? Uh, that's why, you know, look after them and treat them with honor. He says that, uh, giving honor to the female and that's the safest thing to do. Because if you- (laughs) ... if you don't give them honor, watch out. (laughs) So, all right, they're strange creatures. Never think that you will understand them. Never, never think that you will understand because you won't. Husbands don't understand their wives. The longer they live with them, the less they understand them, you know? They- they don't run on the same gas. They don't understand themselves because they're running on a program which is deeper than they have any idea of. It- and, uh, basically that program is the instinctive defense of the ch- of the family, of children and family. And they don't even under- themselves understand always why they do what they do or think what they think. So let alone somebody, uh, somebody else can understand but, um, but that's- that's the way... But how many- many a man will tell you, you know, he's thought and thought and thought about a problem, finally he sees what's right. His wife was saying it three years ago, she saw it like that. She saw it just like that. She said, "Why do you think that?" "I- I don't..." She can't say why she thinks it, but she knows it. She sees it by intuition, then he gets it, gets in the- there in the end. So, you know. In any case they're quite different. All right, verses, um, 8 to 12. "Let all practice fraternal charity." In fine, which means in brief, in- in summary. "Be all of one mind, having compassion one of another, being lovers of the brotherhood, merciful, modest, humble, not rendering evil for evil," and that's Romans 12, "Nor railing for railing." Um, I think that- that of course is... that's an old- old English word. To rail means, we would say sort of to yell, to complain, to abuse, to yell at somebody. "Not rendering ra- railing for railing, but, um, contrariwise blessing, for unto this are you called that you may inherit a blessing." Well, that goes... "You have a heritage in heaven," et cetera, et cetera. "He that will love life," he quotes the Psalm, "will see good days. Let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips that they speak no guile. Let him decline from evil and do good. Let him seek after peace and pursue it, because the eyes of the Lord are upon the just, and His ears are unto their prayers, but the counsel of the Lord upon them... but the countenance of the Lord upon them that do evil things." Obviously, that's the- the frowning... The countenance simply means the face, but there, here it obviously means the frowning face. "The frown of the Lord is upon them that do evil things." Um, F, 13 to 17. "Let all practice fraternal charity." That's Psalm 33. And then 13 to 17, "Let nobody mind suffering for doing good." Uh, and who is it... once again, the S- the Christians are obviously beginning to suffer, so Saint Peter is encouraging them in their tribulations. "Who is it that can hurt you if you be zealous of good?" If you're enthusiastic to do good, w- who can hurt you? And even if you do suffer or get hurt for- for the sake of justice, then you're blessed. "Blessed are you, again, when men shall persecute you and, uh, lie against you and do all manner of things for my sake, for then great is your reward in heaven." The end of the Sermon on the Mount. Hear the same doctrine again. "If you suffer anything for justice' sake, if you're suffering because of something right that you've done and it's wrong that you're suffering, still you're blessed." Be not afraid of their fear and be not troubled." Um, be not afraid by fear- with fear of them. Uh, either... (clears throat) Don't be afraid with the fear of worldly people or with the worldly fear of people. It comes to the same thing. Be afraid of offending God, but that's not their fear. They- they aren't afraid of that. Be afraid... you should be afraid of offending God, but don't be afraid with the kind of fear that they're afraid, by which they're afraid. Don't fear their kind of fear. Fear a Christian's fear which is of falling into sin and offending God. Be not afraid with their fear, and be not troubled. No... (Latin) Let your heart- "Let not your heart be troubled." Our Lord, John 15. "I have overcome the world. Be not troubled." "Take no thought for the morrow." Sermon on the Mount. Don't be anxious. Don't worry. You could put a smiley button in the margin at that point. "But sanctify the Lord Jesus Christ in your hearts, being ready always to satisfy everyone that as- asketh you a reason of the hope which is in you." That's again an echo from before. "Sanctify the Lord Christ in your hearts" is, um, build. (clears throat) Build the Lord Christ... In other words, build the life of Christ in your hearts. Obviously, Christ is not made any more holy by men, but the life of holiness, which is life in Christ, is increased in the hearts of a man who is sanctifying himself. "Ready always to satisfy everyone that asketh you a reason of the hope which is in you." That's Colossians 4, um-Always be ready with an answer and with a grain of salt. Um... "Let your speech be always in grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how to, you, you ought to answer every man." Um... "Be, have an answer for and I forget. Elsewhere in have an answer." Be always ready to defend your faith, in other words, to defend your way of life, your faith, defend our Lord. Uh, "Being ready always to satisfy everyone that asketh you a reason of that hope which is in you." You should always be able to give an account of your faith to somebody who asks. "But with modesty and fear, having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you" In all of this, be modest and be, uh, with modesty and fear, not their fear, which he's just told, he's just said we're not to fear. That's verse 14. But with the fear of God, with modesty and the fear of God. "Having a good conscience" in the state of grace. "That whereas they speak evil of you, they may be ashamed who falsely accuse your good behavior in Christ." In other words, give none of the adversaries of, uh, of Christ, give none of them an excuse to be adversaries of Christ. On the contrary, give them every reason to, uh, respect whoever's responsible for your good behavior. There's no real difficulty there. Now it begins to get a little more difficult. "For it" uh, now 17 is It is better doing well to suffer than doing ill. It is better doing well, if such be the will of God, to suffer than doing ill. If you are sinning and then you suffer, well then you're, you're just getting what you deserve. If you're without sin and you suffer because you're being persecuted unjustly, that's much better than sinning. Socrates said it's, and it was already quite an advance, uh, in his own time probably, "It's better to suffer an injustice than to commit one." And that's argued I think in Plato's Gorgias. It's, it, it seems like a great conclusion coming from Socrates. Its current coinage in, it's obvious in Christianity. So it's better to, uh, suffer for doing well than for doing ill. You may think, "I don't mind suffering for doing ill because then I deserve it, whereas suffering for doing well makes no sense at all." On the contrary, said Peter. If you suffer for doing ill, well that's you, you are getting what you deserve. But in the other case, you're meriting. You're positively meriting. If such be the will of God, it, it's not for us to positively go out and seek suffering. But if God sends suffering our way, well then we have to, uh, accept it and, uh, work around it. Now, 18, it begins to get a little more difficult. "Because Christ also died once for our sins, the just for the unjust, that he might offer us to God being put to death indeed in the flesh, but enlivened in the spirit" That's, that's not a problem. But then, "In which also coming, he preached those spirits that were in prison, which had been sometime incredulous when they waited for the patience of God in the days of Noah, when the ark was a building wherein a few that his eight souls were saved by water, whereunto baptism being of the like form now saveth you also." That's a little rather more difficult. Um, 18, "Because Christ also died once for our sins, the just for the unjust" So there, there's the connection. Christ gave us an example of suffering without, of, with suffering for doing well instead of for doing ill. And the reason why he did this was to offer us to God being put to death indeed in the flesh, but enlivened in the spirit. Now this must, in view of verse 19, refer to Christ's state between his death and his resurrection. So being put to death in the flesh, and he's being crucified, enlivened in the spirit is his soul descending live into limbo. So his body is dead upon the cross, his... And then lying dead in the tomb. His soul is, goes down alive to limbo. "In which also coming, he preached those spirits that were in prison" 19. Uh, between his death and resurrection, he visited the spirits in limbo. He visited the souls in limbo, preaching to those spirits that were in prison. They were in limbo. They couldn't, they couldn't get out. They were caught, trapped there, so to speak, in prison. He preached to those spirits means he told them the good news that they were redeemed. The Protestants take it to mean that we get a second chance even after death. The, the, the Church knows that's not true. So that cannot be the meaning of verse 19. In view of everything else the Church knows and teaches, that it can't be that he's preaching to the souls af- after death as though they still have a choice to make. Therefore, preaching does not mean encouraging to repentance. It means announcing the good news that they are redeemed. Because that's why our Lord descended into limbo, in order to tell those souls that they were redeemed.... which had been sometime incredulous when they waited for the patience of God in the days of Noah, when the ark was a-building. This is, again, something that puts us back in the time of the Old Testament. Souls which, for instance, I mean, he's not... obviously, our Lord... if I lo- we're talking about our Lord who went down to limbo. It's not only the souls that died in the flood, the souls of those who died in the state of grace in the flood. At the time of the flood, obviously, men were very wicked. They had corrupted their ways. But the flood, obviously, it- it, well, it stands to reason, the flood saved a large number of souls because when people saw the waters coming up, they, they got down on their knees and repented before they drowned. Not everybody for sure and certain, but a large number. Maybe pro- maybe the... not the majority, probably not the majority, but it's still a large number. So, which had been sometime (clears throat) incredulous (clears throat), so an example, verse 20, an example of the souls to whom our Lord preached in lim- to whom our Lord announced in limbo that they were redeemed is those souls that mocked Noah before the flood, they were sometime incredulous, souls, for instance, who made fun of Noah, of Noah we say, I'm sorry, of Noah. Well, it's... who made fun of Noah before the flood, but died repentant in the flood. (silence) So, between death and resurrection, our Lord went down to limbo to announce to the souls waiting in limbo, for ins- that they were redeemed, for instance, souls who had disbelieved Noah when they waited for the patience of God in the days of Noah. When they waited for the patience of God, um... what does that mean? Uh, what's the Latin? Quando expectaban patientiam Dei. Uh, what verse is it? Uh, 20. Listen to chapter 3 verse 20, quando expectaban Dei patientiam. Um, I'm not sure, I didn't think about that phrase when I was watching, but, uh, it's, it's probably when they were exploiting the patience of God. Probably the meaning is that they, they were living off the patience of God. They were waiting out, they were running out the patience of God. The, the souls that didn't believe Noah, they were running out the patience of God in the days of Noah when the ark was a-building. They, they disbelieved right down to the end. Then it began to rain, and then it continued to rain, and they rang the local l- radio station and so on, and they said, "Well, we're sure it will stop in a little while." When the ark was a-building... wherein a few, that is eight souls, were saved by water, he's referring o- v- it's a... that's an interesting point. It's, um, the flood, they, they died repentant in the flood from which eight souls were saved by the ark. That, of course, is Mr. and Mrs. Noah, Mr. and Mrs. Ham, Mr. and Mrs. Seth, and Mr.- Mr. and Mrs. Seth, and Mr. and Mrs. Japheth. That's all that's... it, we know from this passage that the flood killed all human beings except eight. It's an extraordinary thought, but that's where it... we know it from. The only human souls that survived the flood. Traditions say that Mrs. Noah was worse than a leaking roof. (laughs) I don't know where tradition has that from, but it's possible. Um, wherein a few, that is eight souls, were saved by water. Of course, this, the problem here is that the water shifts signification. If you take the ark as the church, and then baptism, and then sin, um, the sin is the flood, uh, whereas the baptism is what saves, entry into the ark, uh, so the ladder, you could say. The ladder that led up into the ark is like baptism leading into the Church. The Ch- and as the Church saves from sin, so the ark saved from the flood. S- St. Peter... the problem is that the water is here and then it's there. So Peter is... Peter's thought is jumping from the water of the flood, in which only a few were saved by the ark, to the water of baptism, by which only a f- f- some are saved from sin. Only by the ark were they saved from the flood, only by baptism are they saved... only by the ark were they saved from water, only by water are they saved from sin. The confusion is there. Say... he says, "In which also..."... uh, a f- in- wherein a few, that is eight souls, were saved by water whereunto baptism..." See the, the water shifts meaning. In one case, the water is deadly. In the other case, the water is salvation. In the case of Noah, the water is death. In the case of baptism, the water is salvation. So the water shifts. And yet the water is the, is the swing point, the pivot of this comparison. So the pivot gets dislocated. Jenkins? Is it a case of the water's grace ? Well, yes. The sin, the flood wipes out sinners, yes. But it- But you know, a baptism doesn't wipe out the sinner. (laughs) But it wipes out sin? Uh, y- ye- yeah, of course baptism wipes out sin, yes. But it's not the same. It's, it's really not... The water doesn't have the same signification in both cases. Um, the red s- at the Red Sea, the water wiped out the Egyptians. Uh, and the Egyptians stand for world and sin. Therefore, there, the water is salvation. The Red Sea, the water is salvation. But i- in, in the flood, the water was the instrument of God to kill sinners. Yes? Did Ron say, maybe especially , he killed all men, he'll sinners whether they were born into sin or not born into sin? Uh, it's, it, it's... Water drowns the sinner- Yeah. ... in that sense. If you'll, if you want to think of it that way, yes. If you want to think of it that way. Uh, in any case, what he says though, the... I mean, it's, it's rather like Paul. The, the, the thoughts sort of tumble out. It's all there, but it's not laid out like an article of St. Thomas, let's just say. I mean... So I'm not saying that there's anything inaccurate obviously, this is, this is the word of God, but, uh, it, it's not laid out with care and accuracy in order not to confuse. It's, it's just un- under inspiration and it's, it needs some sorting out. So when the... In the flood, a few, eight souls, were saved by water and the suggestion is that it's only a few that are saved by baptism. It's not a statement, but it's a suggestion that, that in other words, you Christians should not be surprised if you're a small number surrounded by a... And that must have been one of the first problems of... It's always a problem of, it's a problem of traditionalists today. Why are traditionalists so few in number? (scoffs) It's regularly a problem with Catholics. Why, why are there so few? "Well," says St. Peter, "It's because there were only eight souls saved in the flood." So if it's only eight souls being saved by baptism now, don't be surprised. It's mysterious, but it's not, so it shouldn't be surprising. "A few, that is eight souls, were saved by water whereunto..." Um... "So the, um, flood is comparable to the dangers of the world from which Christian souls are saved by the sacrament of baptism." The flood is comparable to the dangers of the world, the sin, sin in the world... from which souls are saved by baptism, or from which Christians' souls are saved by the sacrament of baptism. And that sacrament is not an Old Testament ablution. "Whereunto baptism being of the life form now saveth you also." Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. In other words, it's not just an Old Testament ablution. Compare Hebrews 9. It's not just an Old Testament ablution, which could only wash away the sins of the flesh. The con- the, um, what did we call it? The contaminations. Like, for instance, having touched a corpse that caused a physical contamination, which a Jew had to go through certain ablutions to cleanse. But St. Paul says those ablutions were powerless to touch the soul. Whereas the s- the New Testament sacraments have power to cleanse and, um, affect the soul. Ex opera, operato. So, uh, "A few, that is eight souls, were saved by water. When the ark was fully, wherein a few, that is eight souls, were saved by water." Hm. Uh... I can't think of just why (mumbling) separated from everything else. Yes. Yes. Uh... It... (laughs) The, uh, the souls were saved, the eight souls were saved by water. It's, it's a strange... It doesn't make sense to, you know... Obviously, it's a strange expression. Jenkins? He's talking about Romans Chapter 6, where he talks about how we're baptized into death. That's the reason, uh, the, the power of baptism to cleanse souls comes from the passion of Christ. We're baptized in his death. But that's not the Old Testament. That's not Noah. Well, yeah, but I'm asking about -Well, yes, but the death is only submersion in a figurative sense. Uh, Darby? Is that due to the corruption of the world that, uh, the, the flood had not destroyed... (clears throat) Yes. They might... you know, they (inaudible) Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes. Yes, I see what you're saying. Uh, yes. If Noah and his family had to go on, go on living in the world like Lot in Sodom, if Lot had been forced to go on living in Sodom, they were saved in that sense. Maybe that's what he means, yes. In that case, the flood, as you say, separates from them. In that case... How, how can one put it? Um, now, it needs, it needs reorganizing. Um, the obvious thing is that the water killed a lot of people, but uh- (laughs) ... you know? Um, in any case, he has... It's certain that for Peter, the water, um, answered in, in, uh... What verse is that? Uh, chapter three, verse 20, yes. This is the same (foreign language). Um, yes. Through the water in which they were saved. Eight souls were saved through the water. I suppose you could, you could say, yes, they were saved from the world, they were saved from corruption by the flood. In that, that, that, that certainly makes it easier to understand that way, yes. Yeah. They were saved from the corruption. They were saved from the world, in which case... Um, then, then, then you'd say, uh, this is the world to me. They were saved from, uh, the eight souls were saved by the ark through water, the flood. They're saved in the ark by the flood from the world. Well, they obviously are there saved by the arc from the flood, but in the ark, eight souls in the ark by the flood from the world. Christians are saved in the church by baptism, from s- from, from the world. Yeah, ma- that's easier, certainly. That, that makes it... That's more reasonable. All right. Then, uh, uh, 21, um, uh, not the... Baptism being of the like form now save a few also. So baptism, the water of baptism saves a small minority now, (clears throat) just like the water of the flood saved thanks to the ark, (clears throat) a few souls. So baptism, the water baptism saves a few souls. But baptism is not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. It's not just the material evolution of the Old Testament. It's a, the examination of a good conscience towards God at the resurrection of Jesus Christ. (coughs) Baptism is a spiritual, uh, sacrament. It acts upon the soul. And lastly, who is on the right hand... The resurrection of Jesus Christ, who is on the right hand of God swallowing down death that we might be made heirs of life everlasting being gone into heaven, that we might be made heirs of life everlasting. Colon. He, Christ being gone into heaven, the angels and powers and virtues being made subject to him. So the first half of the verse... Well, the verse basically refers to Christ, but there's a li- uh, the, there, there's a final clause in the middle that refers to we men, that we might be made heirs of life everlasting, and then it, uh, refers back to Christ being gone into heaven, the angels and powers and virtues being made subject to him. (clears throat) So the power of baptism comes from... It's a spirit, it's a spiritual baptism with its power coming from Christ who is at the right hand of God to intercede for his system, Paul in Hebrews. Who's at the right hand of God to enable us to go to heaven, says Saint Peter, same thing. He having gone into heaven and the angels and powers of which should be made subject to him. We'll pick up again in, uh, 10 or 11 days time. (audience clapping) (static noise)(white noise)