Um, uh, I should be away for the next three scripture periods, Thursday, Monday, Tuesday. So, Father Escarra proposed ice. Uh, I ought to, I will also teach this afternoon, though I'd, if we were, if we finish One Peter by this afternoon, then, uh, I think you'll get a little break 'cause I may not have time to prepare anything further. We were in the middle of the special duties of Christians. We were looking at the, uh, in verses 11 and 12, "Let the good example of Christians dispel the calumnies of the pagans." Uh, 13 to 17, "Let Christians be subject to the authorities." That, and notice this text as a source of that Catholic, Catholic doctrine of, uh, respect for and submission to the civil authorities. And the Cath- a Catholic is always making the distinction between the man and the institution, between the authority as authority and the authority as a human being. The authority as a human being can always make the most awful mistakes, but the principle of authority remains intact. Uh, and you know that because, uh, (sighs) uh, you know that man has a social nature, God creates the social part of that social nature. The socialness of man's social nature comes from God. It's absolutely integrated with the individualness of the, of the, of his human nature. The individualness and the familialness and the socialness of human nature are, are three integrated... they're not three separate chunks. It's the whole of newt- human nature which is both individual and familial and social. So the socialness of human nature is, is integrated into, absolutely integrated into human nature. That human nature comes from God, socialness comes from sh- God. Therefore, society comes from God. Contrast Rousseau, society is an artificial thing which you only walk into when... which the noble savage only gets into trouble with when he walks out of his no- out of his noble forest. Fantasy, absolute fantasy, but it's a key fantasy. To deny the socialness of man is to create this insane individualistic world which is part of what's got into these kids in c- in Littleton. Living in these individualistic suburban homes, not forming part of any decent society, of any human society, with no proper expression for their socialness. Pfft. Yeah, that's, that's bad news. It's gonna twist and frustrate in the depths. Um, here's another example of something, and I make fun of the wave, but there is something else, um, sport, the, uh, something else, um, came across but I can't remember what it was. Uh, therefore, society comes from God. Now, society absolutely needs authority, therefore the principle of authority comes from God. The need of authority comes from God. Therefore, authority is of God. That's exactly what Paul says, exactly what Peter says. Whereas the modern world, authority is, comes from purely from human beings. Com- It's radically false, radically false, that, that if human beings live in society, it's purely by an agreement amongst themselves, the social contract. Fantasy, ab- dangerous and deadly fantasy. Um, you're lucky I had... In my judgment, you're lucky to have had, uh, you know, Rousseau really taken to the cleans in front of you because he is, he's kind of the key to the modern world. I remember Dr. Winowski, how many of you know Dr. Winowski? Yeah. He's down at St. Mary's. He was, he ta- he taught a year or two down, down the hill before. He used to come up here for mass, and that's how he finally got to St. Mary's. Um, but he was down the hill and, and I asked him once, you know, I th- he maybe have writ- he may have writ- written it, you know, what is the number one influence down the hill? He said, "Rousseau." The number one influence on all the madness going on in all of these stupid, crazy uni- quote unquote universities, Rousseau. Rousseau, number one. All the madness of the modern world kind of funnels through that poor crazy man. So, um, uh, authority, the principle of authority comes from God. Of course, of course, of course, these are all, you know, Catholics understand. One, Catholics understand the weakness of human nature and the sacredness of authority. They understand both principles. That's why Catholics are constantly distinguishing between the poor SOB who's in position of authority and the sacred principle that he, of which he is, for as long as he is the authority, the carrier. Priests make, Catholics make that distinction particularly about priests. You know, the priesthood is sacred even if this particular priest is an SOB or he's a wretched sinner. Uh, the, the mistake, if you don't distinguish between those two formal aspects of the same material being, this human being taken materially is both a priest and an SOB. And if you don't distinguish between the priest and the SOB or the priest and the poor sinner, then either you're going to make sin stick to the priesthood, and then when he commits a sin, you throw the whole faith out of the window, which is a deadly mistake-Or you make the priesthood stick to the sin, that is to say since he's a priest then it's not really a sin what he's doing. You've got to distinguishing the two, and distinguish all the time between those two formal aspects, the two formalities of w- one, uh, material thing or human being, whatever it is. So, for instance, uh, so you've got hope. Materially, materially, he's just one being, he's one man. He's got two legs, two arms, one head. He's about 80 years old or 75, 78 years old, however many years, he's Polish and so on. That's taken materially. Taken formally, then there is the Vicar of Christ... and the hopeless, uh, humanly hopeless dreamer, uh, the hopeless dreamer. There's the- there's the two things. Now, if you, if you don't separate the two, if you pull... if you make the dreamer stick to the Vicar of Christ, you'll become a Liberal. Because you will say that this dream comes from Christ, the dream of ecumenism, the dream of religious liberty, the dream of building Orthodox churches for the Romanians... That's the latest, last weekend or the weekend before. He goes there and s- promises a bunch of Vatican money to help the Romanian Orthodox to build Orthodox churches. I mean, you know. (laughs) If you, if you fasten the dream to Christ, you'll become a Liberal. That say, you will say that this dream is... On the other hand, if you fasten Christ to the dream, if you say that Christ is attached to the dream, then of course you become a because you say that it's absolutely impossible for Christ to, um, back this dream, therefore he's not the Vicar of Christ. He is the Vicar of Christ because he is a, an SOB at the same time that he is in authority. The formality of his being in authority, the formality of the Vicar of Christ is different from the formality of his poor weaknesses as a human being. The Lord God, why does the Lord God, uh, choose to entrust authority, both either civil or eccli- ecclesiastical to poor human beings when the Lord God knows, especially in his church, that it is gonna be poor SOBs to who, the, the, to whom the authority's gonna be trusted? That's- that's our Lord's choice. And- (coughs) ... that's, that's his decision. He could have instituted... He could have arranged for the church to be governed by angels. It's, it, you can imagine, I mean, the Lord God is, is God, he could easily have done it that way. But they would've, they would, they would, we would've... Human, all human beings would've been directed by angels openly and obviously, and, um, uh, but I don't... (sighs) What's Saint Thomas'... What's the famous principle of Saint Thomas for the reason why our Lord founds the priesthood of poor human beings? (?). Uh, our Lord became man, that's, that's, uh, our Lord might still have preferred even if he became man to, um, entrust his church to angels because they would do a better job than men would do. You probably don't know, Matthew. You're unlikely to know. (laughs) Give it a try. I was just gonna say, so that you see our Lord . Um, it's, it obviously, the, a human priesthood does follow to quite an extent upon a, the incarnation, that's for sure. If the supreme high priest has took human nature, it's normal that- that the following priests would be human beings. On the other hand, you might say it's abnormal th- uh, since the supreme high priest was sinless, it's abnormal that he should pri- choo- choose priests would be sinful. He might just as well say, "Since the supreme high priest was, was sinless, then he ought to put, uh, put his ch- church in the hands of sinless angels." So, the argument is not conclusive. Nor is Saint Thomas' argument conclusive. But Saint Thomas' argument is extremely interesting, and it's a ge- it's a principle that applies way outside of just why he takes human beings to be priests. He wishes to, um, confer upon creatures the dignity of... secretary causality, that's right. He wants to, he wants to, uh... If the, the, the Lord God could run the whole universe by himself, and you might say, "If he did it himself, it would be well-run." (laughs) But in that case, everybody would be just moved as opposed to mover. They would, the Lord God would do all the moving, directing, deciding, and everybody would be just, uh, uh, pawns on the board, so to speak. We'd all be just shuffled around. It would be an impe- an- an impeccable shuffle, but it would be only a shuffle. We would all be doing a divine shoe shuffle all the way to heaven, and that's all we would be doing. On the other hand, if the Lord God... The- the Lord God doesn't w- uh, the Lord God... None of us would have the dignity of being a cause. We would all have the comparative or relative indignity of being mere effects. God wishes to bestow upon his creatures the dignity of causality. And if those causes, those secondary causes are human beings, then we're talking about... human dignity. (gasps) Well, there it is, but only in Saint Thomas, it's the real McCoy, as opposed to this dummy Russoist substitute of today. But, um, I can't remember if that's in the treaties on the priesthood. It's certainly in the-Uh, the... towards the end of the Prima Pars, uh, the... in the whole treatise, uh, the whole section on the governance of creatures, uh, Gubernatio Creaturarum, it must come up front. In other words, it's the heart of question 103 of the Prima Pars. I'm sure it'll be there. Uh, I might find it for this afternoon. Uh, the why does God... th- th- the whole, as you know, the Prima Pars is, um, uh, the Prima Pars, is question one which is sacred doctrine. Um, then 2 to 26 is Deo Deo Uno, and of course 20, uh, 27 to 43 is Deo Doctrino. Uh, 44 to, um, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, 49 is Deo Creatore. So that's all God. And then we come into creatures, the section on creatures, uh, which is princi- the angels, 50 to 64, and then, uh, 65 to 102, man, th- those funny, extraordinary, uh, desperate creatures called man. Uh, Sophocles says, "There are many strange things but none stranger than man." In Lancashire you've heard me quote, "There's nowt so queer as folk." (laughs) Uh, the last part is the governance of creation, and that's 103 through to the end, which is 119. Um, and, uh, s- here the... a- and again, there's, uh, the governance... the gover- the governing of creatures in general, and then the governing as carried out by angels, and then as carried out by men, and finally as carried out by things, as I recall. And that's where you get the question on faith towards the end, the question, uh, do the stars govern us? The answer is of course, no they don't. But, uh, up here must be the principles of why God entrusts the government of the... he... of the... of the universe to creatures. In... in other words, he puts his own government into the hands of creatures because he wishes creatures to have the dignity of causality. Same principle behind the priesthood. Um, same principle behind a- all civil authority. Uh, uh, obviously the Lord God foresaw that, that human beings are going to misuse their authority. Shakespeare anybody? Dress up a man in a little authority and just see what fantastical high tricks he plays. Jenkins? Well done. Where? Oh, I think you're right. Who's speaking? Well done. Yes, well done. (laughs) Uh, it's Isabel, and why is she talking about authority? Because, uh (inaudible) That's right. Angela, yes. Yes, that's it. And so she tries to persuade this puritan that, uh, he is playing fantastical high tricks with his authority. Um, so obviously God foresaw that civil authorities, and much worse, ecclesiastical authorities, are going to play fantastical high tricks, but it's still worth it. Uh, the upside th- the... it, it still outweighs the downside. The... even if, even if in the... like with the salvation of souls, even if it's the great number of souls that, that go to hell, still it's worth creating them all for the sake of those... the relatively few that get to heaven. If... even if a number of priests misuse their authority, it's still worth creating a human priesthood for the sake of those relatively few who make the use of the priesthood that the Lord God intended, who respond to his invitation to make the right use of the enormous authority and responsibility that he puts in their hands. Our Lord wa- uh, once said to Saint Therese of Avila, I think, he said, "I would have created the whole of creation just for you." Does anybody know who can confirm that quotation? Saint Therese of Avila, I think. Um, so one... uh, the Lord God works with quality and not with quantity, and therefore, um, he will... even if the majority of popes misuse their authority, still if there are a few that got it right, the Lord God, the way he operates would still have instituted a human papacy for the benefit of those who would freely make the right use of what... of his gifts, as opposed to those who freely make the wrong use of his gifts. So therefore, uh, the m- the Catholic principle of authority, of respectful authority, which is... goes clean against the whole modern world, which is built on Russo, which is built on individualism, built on liberalism, built on liberty, built on fantasy, built on scorn for authority, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So notice the, that section on authority. Notice of course, I mean, I think in principle Americans are revolutionary but then, you know, let Americans understand the need for authority and they are as, as, uh, as... they, they are as respectful of author- for instance, in, in the American military, there always used to be serious respect for the officers. I mean-... the military operated, uh, with, uh- by respect. They used to be, um, and there still is, much respect for the, for the office of the President. And to this- Yeah. I mean, everybody in America today knows that Clinton is a jerk, a total jerk, a criminal. I mean, many people know he's a criminal jerk. But still, the principle is operating. I mean, even Americans distinguish between the auth- office and the carrier of the office. But you find amongst, quote unquote, traditional Catholics, you find many who don't make that distinction. The priest is either... If you become a priest, you are either going to be, you've heard me say many times, you're either gonna be the greatest thing since sliced bread or you're gonna be the greatest traitor that ever was born between, uh, from sea to shining sea. And it swings. It takes no more than three minutes to swing from one to the other. (laughs) One moment it's (whooshing noise), and the next moment, it's a back full of daggers. (laughs) From one moment to the next, simply because people are not making the right distinction. They're not venerating the priest and w- just wait- just, you know, expecting the human being to make mistakes. Instead of that, they either subsume the human being into the priest and everything he does is absolutely wonderful, or they pull the priesthood down to the level of the poor SOB, and then even if he's a priest, he's an SOB. They can't make that distinction. And it's m- it's materialistic thinking. It's thinking, uh, always, uh, uh, materially and never thinking formally. But of course, to think formally, you have to start abstracting and, you know- (clears throat) ... nobody likes abstracting, so. But it's common sense. It's common sense. Notice then that passage on authority. And as Saint Paul, uh, Saint Peter argues if you behave yourselves well towards the authorities, you will gain the respect and the confidence of men and you will silence your adversaries. That's a, that's a payoff. That's a, that's a... Uh, uh, uh, C18 to 25, uh, the doctrine on slaves and masters or servants and masters. You've s- I think we saw all of that yesterday. Did we get to the end of, uh, paragraph or chapter two? Yes, I think we did. Yes, we were into section D. Uh, on television, I think Father Michelli was being interviewed, somebody. If, uh, any television interviewer, uh, he'll, if he raises the subject of slavery, for him, it's an axiom that slavery is the ultimate evil. But if a priest who's being interviewed, if a priest goes along with that, even a little bit and says, "Oh, yes. I know slavery is terrible," he's gonna get into a wrong... He- he's, he's giving way to the wrong precept- the wrong principles, and the interviewer is gonna trip him up. The interviewer will go logically from, "Oh, slavery is just terrible." Uh, uh, you know, "Well, in that case, liberty is good." "Well, yes, I suppose so." "In that case, religious liberty." "Well, yes, I suppose so." I mean, it's from, from one thing to the next. Uh, uh, in other words, if somebody wants to talk to you about the evil of slavery, fine, but slavery is not the ultimate evil. Sin is the ultimate evil. Slavery is not the ulta- slavery is simply a human institution which gives quite big opportunities to evil. Yes. It's, it's, it's an institution which is easily exploitable because, um, one man has power over another. It, uh, it, it panders to the desire of power and the wrong exercise of power. But from there to saying that, uh, slavery is, is the ultimate evil, absolutely not. If, if slavery is well, is w- is wisely operated, you've simply got what's going on today all over the United States. People today are virtual slaves of their punch clock, of their mortgage, of their paycheck, of, um, their whatever it is, and you know, it's... If people today think that th- they're in any real sense free, they're slaves of their television, they're slaves of pornography, they're slaves of, uh, the media, the, the newspapers. They take all of their thinking, uh... They're slaves without realizing it and they're treated like slaves. The- these politicians scorn these, this people. These media men scorn these people. They know what they can get away with. They despise the people. They don't treat the people as free or th- they, they know that the people are, are virtual slaves. So, slavery is not the ultimate evil, but of course, it's part of the great lie today, it's part of the great lie that we in the 20th century are more wonderful and we are more free, we have more liberty, we are more wonderful than any previous age has been. That's the great lie. So, part of that, part of that lie is that people are not slaves today. They are. They just don't know it. That's all. It's been cleverly disguised from them. All right. The... Who is the man that is truly free? The man who is, mm, master of himself with the grace of God. Master of his passions, who's in c- I mean, that man who's controls himself. There aren't many such men today. Fox? Uh, just significant to what you were talking about before with authority. Is it a true principle that you need a great reason to criticize someone who's authority? And do you need a great reason to (...) Uh, you've gotta have a proportionate reason. Yes, I would say so. Yes. You've gotta be careful of criticizing people in authority. You can see the example I've quoted you many times, the example of our Lord-... who is being gravely mistreated by Annas and Caiaphas but s- but doesn't disrespect them. Not a trace of disrespect towards the authority. And Paul, Paul turns on, uh, the, I think it's the high priest, isn't it? Acts 22, around there. The high priest who, who, again, is totally unjust to what St. Paul, and St. Paul whips around, "You whited sepulchre," or something. And he has some, you know, uh, expression for him. And then somebody said, "Do you realize you're talking to the high priest?" "Oh," says St. Paul, "I didn't realize." It's in Deuteronomy, "Thou shalt not, thou shalt not something the prince." Does anybody know where that is? Look, uh, have you got, who's got back, B-A-C? Uh, look up Acts. Find the, find the quotation in Acts. I think it's Acts 22 or 23, it's around there. Um, "Thou shalt..." Uh, uh, 22? 23:3. 23:3, there you are. Acts 23:3. Uh, wha- is there a cross-reference? Leviticus 19:15. That'll be it prob- most likely. Leviticus 19:15, "Thou shalt not criticize the prince." Uh, Leviticus 19:15. Um, that's not exactly it. Um, "Thou shall not slander thy neighbor." 19:15, you said? Yeah, "Thou shall not do thou which is unjust or judge ... in one way or another. There's a French proverb, uh, and it's absolutely true. Remember, if you're a mass center, (French). Whenever you've got a problem in a chapel, or a mission, or a mass center, remember (French), meaning there's bound to be a woman behind it. (laughs) It's true. There's bounds to be a woman behind the problem. "Just this, just watch, I will see." The men don't bother, usually, but the women, oh, la, la, la, la, la, la. So you have to look after them. You look after them and then they're wonderful. If you don't look after them, oof, there can be all kinds of trouble. They do need to be looked after. You've heard me say many times, the three Ls: listen, love, lead. Listen to women. Do not argue with them. Do not argue with women. It is a complete waste of time. (laughs) Do not argue with women. It's unchivalrous for a start. It's like boys... Never let boys play any sports with women, with girls, because if the boys win it's unchivalrous, and if the boys lose, it's unmanly. You, you, you... So it's a lose-lose situation. Don't... In any school that you run, don't let the boys compete with the girls in any way, shape, size or form, because if there's any danger of the boys being beaten by the girls, all the self-respecting boys will just cut out. They will cut out in order to demonstrate that they're not really trying, because they couldn't really try and let themselves be defeated by girls. It's not possible. It's against their manly pride, a correct manly pride. It's not an i- it's not a false manly pride, it's a correct manly pride when a man does not want to let himself be beaten by a woman. There's nothing wrong with that. It's correct. The modern world teaches the opposite. The modern world is crazy. Uh, you can... That doesn't mean to say that you build up the pride of the boys. You can... When the boys are amongst the boys, you can humiliate them as much as you like, but you don't humiliate them in front of the women, because that's, that's what... God entrusts authority to the boy, to the men. The men have authority. The men are, are meant to have authority over the women. They're meant to make the right use of that authority. They're meant to have authority over the women, and therefore you don't... If you make... If you humiliate the boys in front of the girls, you are destroying the principle of authority. Exactly the opposite of what Saint Paul's just been saying, or what Saint Peter's just been saying. But in, uh, in the Naval Academy, Dr. White will tell you, they now take c- they make the, the chief midshipman, they choose a midshipwoman to be the chief midship- the chief midshippy. (laughs) Midshipperson. (laughs) You know, y- y- e- now, in the liberal, in Liberville, when you go down the street, what you see on the street a personholes, 'cause you're not allowed, I'm sure, to call it any longer a manhole, because you've got women workers who are now street workers as well, so it could just as well be a womanhole as a manhole, therefore it's got to be called a personhole, no doubt. (laughs) The modern world, it's stupid. Makes one gag for its stupidity. So, um, uh, listen, love. Listen, don't argue, but do listen. Li- listen to what they have to say. Pay attention. Give them attention. They need attention. Women need attention. And if you don't give it to them, it will, they will get their revenge. Women need attention. Give it to them and they will eat out of your hand, w- especially if you love them. Listen to them, love them. They will eat out of your hand if you give them attention and love. They will be ready to do anything for you. And then lead. You listen to everything they have to say and then you make the decision. The man makes the decision. That's how it should be. Uh, and there's all kinds of little things that you can let them decide. In a home, broadly speaking, she is the, the, the w- the w- the woman is the queen of the home and he is the king. The king is ad extra but the woman is ad intra. The home is her domain, and if she wants this color of carpet and that color, let her have it. Let her have it, let her have it, let her have it, 'cause she'll have it anyway. (laughs) You know? But then when some, when there's some major question, then the man has got to put his foot down. "The, the, darling, look, this is how it's going to be. This is my responsibility and this is what I decided." And, and if, if he's made up his mind sh- very easily, very often, she will simply fall in line. She's made to follow her man. She's made to... She's made adaptable. She's made to adapt. She's... Women are much more adaptable than men are. They're quite different from men. I, I... You've heard me say this so often, so often, so often, but it's because the propaganda, the false propaganda in the opposite direction is so current today. It's everywhere. The, the nonsense is everywhere, and it's in order to destroy the family, 'cause if the revolution can destroy the family, then it can make... It can do what it like, likes with the individuals. God designed the individuals to be formed th- in the family, and they need a family for the... to build their souls just like they need calcium to build their bones. Analogously generated. And if you can destroy the family, you will, you will pull human beings to pieces. It's as simple as that. Well, we will move on in St- in Peter this afternoon.(Static noise)