... -ish chapter 13 today. (coughs) (chair squeaks) The, uh... Satan will give the Antichrist all of his own evil, his experience, and all possible power in mimicry of the hypostatic union. God is to Jesus Christ equals Satan to the Antichrist. God is to Christ as Satan is to the Antichrist. Satan is going to try to make with the Antichrist a relation, as far as possible, like between God and Christ. Uh, the Antichrist will feign to be dead, verse 3, and will rise again, uh, like the South. Uh, pre- preserving his wound in order once more to ape the stigma of, of Christ. And it will obviously be on television. It will be on CBC, ANC, OABC- (laughs) ... and Universal. Uh, verse 4, "And they adored the dragon who gave power to the beast and they adored the beast, saying, 'Who is like unto the beast? And who sh- will be able to fight with him?'" All carnal men... Carnal, fleshly as opposed to spiritual. All carnal, karo karne is flesh. All carnal men will glorify the Antichrist in an unparalleled triumph as he rises from the dead. And they adored the dragon who gave power to the beast. So they're going to be, people are going to, the, they're going to adore the Antichrist and adore Satan. They're not far from it today, it's obvious. "And they adored the power of the beast, and they adored the beast, saying, 'Who is like unto the beast? And who will be able to fight with him?'" Five, "And there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and speaking blasphemies, and there was given him power to act for 42 months." This is the verse that says the Antichrist's reign will be three and a half years. Uh, the mouth and the pride of the Antichrist are let loose for a limited three and a half years. The Antichrist is gonna reign supreme for a terrible period, but it's limited. He is given a mouth and power to let loose, to rage, to prevail, to dominate, for three and a half years, 42 months, 36 plus 6. Three and a half years is the limited duration of th- the Antichrist's reign. "And he opened his mouth unto blasphemies against God, to blasphemhis name, blaspheme His name and His tabernacle." Verse 6. "His tabernacle," the tabernacle of God is the Catholic Church, "and those who dwell in Heaven." Against the Church and against the Saints. Verse 7, "And it was given him to make war with- upon the Saints and to conquer them." So the Antichrist really is going to smash the Church, to all appearances. Uh, to make war with the Saints. The Saints, the, the Antichrist will physically overwhelm Catholics. He will crush Catholics. Catholics will be crushed by the Antichrist. It was given to him, notice. It is given him to o-... God in his mysterious providence allows the Antichrist to prevail physically, just like God is mysteriously allowing the predecessor of the Antichrist, like William Jefferson So-and-so, to prevail today. Decent men hardly get a look in. It's all that decent men can do to get their act together. Everything is against them. Everything seems against them. Everything is ma- at least made to look as though it's against them by the- (coughs) ... vile media. Just, just think, keep thinking of today and think of this, sunt idem. Uh, every tribe... "And, uh, it was given him to make war upon the Saints and to conquer them. It was given him power apart, over every tribe, and people, and tongue, and race." Um, compare the universal empire of the Messiah. Again, the Antichrist is aping Christ. Christ's reign is universal. The Antichrist is making a point, will make a point of making his ri- reign universal. The univer- uh, the, the every tribe, the, the Christ, the Antichrist's empire will be universal like the Messiah's. Daniel 7:14. Daniel 7:14. The universality of the empire of the Messiah. The Antichrist is at all points aping Christ. Eight, "And they all adored i-... All who had hab- who, who dwell upon the Earth adored the beast, all those whose names are not written in the book of the li- book of life of the Lamb, who was slain from the origin of the world."... little tricky. "All worldly men, all carnal men," again, "all worldly men not written in the Book of Life. All worldly men..." In other words, the world, the world is di- people are divided between the servants of the world and the servants of Christ. The world is against Christ, Christ is against the world. "All worldly men will be totally at the service of the Antichrist." "All worldly men will be totally at the service of the Antichrist who have not profited from the graces of the Lamb." They've all received graces of the Lamb, but they've by no means all profited from the graces of the Lamb. All those who turn away the Lamb will adore the Antichrist. By the Lamb's graces alone, by the graces of the Lamb alone, since the beginning of the world, men can be saved. That's what this means from the... He was killed from the beginning of the world. That's what that means. By the graces of the Lamb alone since the beginning of the world, men can be saved. Adam was saved. If Adam was saved, it's... Ch- Church fathers teach that Adam and Eve did long penance, but they were saved. They were saved by the grace of Jesus Christ. There's no other grace by, by which anybody can be saved. So from the beginning of the world, the Lamb was slain in the sense that it is by the grace of Jesus Christ that anybody at all from the beginning of mankind was saved. Now, the grace of Jesus Christ is the graces of the slain Lamb because his grace comes by his passion and death. Therefore, the grace of the Lamb was slain from the beginning of the world. So all those who have not profited by the graces of the Lamb, who therefore are not written in the Book of Life, will be blinded and adoring the Antichrist because the only way in which anybody could be saved is by the grace of the slain Lamb, that grace which was available from the beginning of the world. Any... I hope that's clear. It is reasonable. Notice the, notice the... Once again, once again, once again, the crusading blindness of Paul VI in this, in this long letter in which he's taking the arch- trying to take the, take the archbishop to cleanness. On the one hand, he's so wrong. On the other hand, he's completely convinced. He's locked into his error. He's blind, absolutely blind. It's a terrible punishment, that kind of blindness. I think I said to you that there is a story, I have no idea if there's a grain of truth in it or not, there's a story that at the end of his life, Pope Paul VI made a confession which turned the hair of the young priest hearing his, hearing his confession white. Uh, I don't know if that story is true. You know, I... You know nothing about any of this true or false coming out of this Vatican. You have got no idea if anything's true coming out of it. That's the story that comes up. (Italian), the Italians say. "If it's not true, it's a good idea." (laughs) If it's not true that his confession turned the hair white of a young priest listening to it, hey, it's, it's still, it's on target. It's, uh, it's, it's, um, it's (Italian). It's literally well found. Somebody thought it up. It's well thought up. (Italian). Well thought up. If it isn't true, it's well thought up. In other words, if it isn't true, it's very like the truth. It would have been an enormous grace for Paul VI to see at the end of his life and, and but, gosh, imagine his responsibility if he, if he's, if he has gone to hell. But the terrible blindness. There was a French mystic who when he became pope said he wanted it. She knew perfectly well that, uh, uh, it was a deadly thing, both for him and for the church to have been, for him to become pope, but he wanted it. He wanted to be pope, and he became pope. For his own, for his own downfall, for his own wretchedness, for his own misery, for his own punishment. And the moment he became pope, he began pushing through this incredible program of transforming the Catholic Church. John Paul II was simi- similar, but they're blind, blind. Hmm. Terrible punishment. Beg God not to let you go blind. The greatest blinder, anybody? The greatest blinder? Pride is right, pride. Because if I want to... The disordered appetite of one's own excellence, the disord- the disordered desire of one's own excellence is the definition of pride, and these modernists want to set themselves up in the place of God. It's as simple as that. They want to change the church. They want to be ma- God was the maker of the church, they want to be remakers of the church. They want to be like gods once again. So it's pride. And if I'm so keen on my own excellence, I'm gonna d- deliberately blind myself to anything that's against that excellence or a reality that puts me back in my place, I'm gonna blind myself to it. I'm gonna see only those things that lift me up and puff me up. That's the blindness of pride. All right, verse nine. Uh, "If anybody has ears let, uh, an ear, let him hear." Uh, those who have ears for spiritual things, pay attention.Those who have ears for things spiritual, pay attention. Verse 10. "He who will have led into captivity will go himself into captivity. Who will have killed in the sword must himself be killed by the sword. Here is patience and here is the patience and faith of the saints." So this is the last word. Well, the last word in chapter 13 on the Antichrist. It's not the last word in the whole of the apocalypse on the Antichrist, but it's the last word here. It's like a little conclusion. If anybody has ears to hear, let them hear. Listen to this. The triumph of the Antichrist will be short-lived. He will in turn be punished. Three and a half years, Queen Elizabeth I of England is meant to have prayed to God. Again, I don't know if it's true. She said, "Just, just let me be queen for 40 years and then I don't mind what you do with my soul." I mean, it's not she prayed for that. Who, to who did she pray to? Maybe she prayed to the devil. I mean, I'm not... That's not the kind of prayer God would grant. Uh, but she's meant to have prayed for just 40 years. She had... She got exactly that. She got 40 years of reign and then she went to the devil. Terrible death, Queen Elizabeth I. They brought in one of the Anglican priests that she had so established. She sa- she set up the Anglican Church, that when she was dying they brought in an English priest. She said, "You're only a hedge priest. Get out of here." She knew exactly what she'd done. She knew the church she set up was bogus. You're a hedge priest. Get out of here. She was a terrible woman. Terrible, terrible woman. Very powerful. A real Jezebel. The triumph of the Antichrist will be short-lived. He will... If imprisoned, he will be imprisoned. He will have killed with the sword. He will be killed with the sword. However, uh, here is the patience and faith of the saints. He will in turn be punished not without having shown up the patience or not without having brought out the patience and faith of true saints. Not without having highlighted, not without having provoked, not without having caused, not without having been the occasion of the patience and faith of the true saints. That's of course why God will have allowed the Antichrist, because there will be, we're told, several of the greatest saints in all the history of the church, and their greatness will be shown by the terribleness of the persecution. All that happens on this earth is for the sake of the saints. S- St. Augustine says it in the East- the Holy Week liturgy. "If God allows evil men, it's either so that they should convert or that they should put good men to the trial." It's, it's Augustine, in Holy Week. One of the readings. You've got to work out whether it's... (humming) That's all we think about, you know, what does that, what it's actually saying, you know? I mean, come on. You can't expect too much. (laughs) (laughs) Um, the second beast, the second beast of the apocalypse. The dragon is Satan. The first beast is the Antichrist, and the second beast is more or less the false church. The false church. More or less the false church. Just, let's just say that today, uh, watching what's going on today, um, to say that the second beast is the false church is something you could never have said in a Catholic seminary 50 years ago. "Oh! Oh, unimaginable blasphemous!" But today, unfortunately, look, look around you. So just cast the light upon the second beast of the false church and you can... He comes to life. The second beast is the servants of the Antichrist. "I saw another beast arising from the earth, and he had two horns similar to the, the, like the lamb and he's... but he spoke like the dragon." So he's a false lamb. Got it? This is a false lamb. "The servants of the Antichrist with intelligence, eloquence, and talent..." Arising, the first beast arose from the sea. The second beast arises from the land. Some people equate the red dragon with communism. And again, there's plenty of application there. There's plenty of application there. The red beast, the red dragon is Satan, but, I mean, communism is satanic and therefore what's said about Satan can to a great extent be said about communism. So there are... Don't think that any one of these applications excludes others. There are spiritual patterns which repeat down history. Okay, so. Arising not from the depths of perversity, i.e. from the sea, like the first beast, but arising from worldliness, i.e. from the earth. From the desire to obtain by the Antichrist glory, wealth, et cetera. Malachi Martin, I think, says that the motivation of the churchmen of the new church is to obtain a place in the sun in the new world order. It makes sense-They want to be prominent and glorious in the new world order. In other words, they want to receive from the Antichrist. They want... So they want- the second beast wants to receive from the first beast. Uh, th- i- it rises from the earth, from the desire to obtain by the Antichrist, glory, wealth, and everything else this world has to give. So the second beast is working in conjunction with the first. The false lamb works in conjunction with the Antichrist. The new church is already working in- (coughs) -conjunction with the new world order. In this fifth age of the church, we can already see the partnership. It's very clear. From the, from the desire to obtain by the Antichrist glory, wealth, et cetera. The two horns, verse 11, are se- s- seductive doctrine, once again, intellect and will, doctrine and virtue. Seductive doctrine, in other words, false doctrine, and simulated virtue. Pretended virtue in the will, pretended truth in the intellect. Firstly, pretended truth in the intellect, I- error in the intellect, but seductive error. And then pretended virtue in the will, again, false. It's false. The lamb, the s- the second beast is a false lamb. Pretends to be like the first lamb, which is why it's, you can definitely say it's like- (coughs) -it's, it's the false church. The lamb is the bride of, uh, the, the, the lamb... Take for the church, which is the bride of the lamb, the lamb of God, and the false lamb is the false church. Two horns, seductive doctrines, simulated virtue. Talk, it- but it spoke like the dragon. The language of the second beast is filled with pride, blasphemy, and hypocrisy. That's the new church, the new church today. Its language is full of pride, blasphemy, and hypocrisy. Glory to man in the highest. Pride. God is at the service of man. Blasphemy. Vatican Two is the greatest council there ever has been. Hypocrisy. Bazillion examples. The l- the talk of the false lamb is filled with pride, blasphemy, and hypocrisy. Verse 12, (clears throat) and he made all the power of the first beast in the sight of the first beast, and he made the earth and those dwelling up- on the earth adore the first beast whose deadly wound was cured. So, uh, that's the Antichrist again. So, the false church makes everybody bow down in front of the Antichrist. It makes sense, 'cause the false church has got spiritual clout because it is a false church. The false lamb makes everybody bow down in front of the Antichrist. The power of the Antichrist will be communicated to the false lamb. And he did all the power of the first beast. The power of the Antichrist is communicated to the false lamb. The Antichrist gives all of his clout to the false church. However, he did all the power. Wha- what's the English translation of that? That's not in there. He did all the power. That's not in- He did great signs. He did great signs. All right, yes. He, uh, verse 12? No. Executed all power, yeah. He's executed all power. Ah, yes, that's it. Okay. He executed all power of the first beast in the sight of the first beast. In other words, ins- in the sight of the first beast means only instrumentally, i.e. never without the principle. The f- second beast acts always only instrumentally as an instrument of the first beast. He carries out all of his power only in the sight of the first beast, meaning never separately from the first beast. The second beast is only the instrument of the first beast. Uh, first beast (marker thuds) is the second beast as principle to instrument. Principle adjective cause. Principle cause to instrumental cause. Principle to instrumental. Just so you don't think I've misspelled principle. As principle to instrumental. The first beast is to the second as principle to instrumental. The second beast is the first as instrument to the principle. All right. So he's carrying out the full power of the first beast, only always in the sight of the first beast. In other words, always is instrument of the first beast. Uh, and the second beast, the false lamb, will lead all mankind to adore the first beast. So the second beast, the false church, is going to put people in the service of the Antichrist. The fol- the new church today is putting people in the service of the new world order. Clear. Clear, clear, clear. Yoking people to the, to the fir- the new world order. The false church will lead mankind to adore the fol- the first beast, to adore the Antichrist. Verse 13. And he did great signs so that he could make fire... so as to make fire descend down from heaven upon earth in the sight of men.... fire from heaven. The second beast will have power to ape Pentecost, the fire from heaven. The devil is always aping God, 'cause he wants to be like God. So fire from heaven, he's going to ape fire from heaven. It's going to be a new Pentecost, just like Vatican II. Pope John Paul II keeps on saying that Vatican II is a new Pentecost. All of those Neo-Montists believe that. They believe the church only began with Vatican II. Um, this, for 1900 years the church has been teaching that the good news is that Christ has redeemed us just so long as we want to cooperate. But Vatican II tells us that the really good news is that we're all of us saved whether we cooperate or not. Only for 1900 years the church has been blind to what the real good news is. The church has been locked up in darkness and shadows and pessimism. We are emerging in the bright, brave new world of knowing that everybody is saved. John Paul II teaches that. He teaches it, clearly. (coughs) He believes it. (coughs) And the Holy Ghost is the continuer of the good news, of the, of the good news that we're all saved. And, um, thus, uh, when any man has any pangs of conscience that proves that the Holy Ghost is at work. If the Holy Ghost is at work, that's sanctifying grace. If there's sanctifying grace, that's conversion. Therefore, any pangs of conscience are conversion. So all those who have any kind of pangs in their conscience are converted. They're good guys, they're Catholics, fine, no problem. And who's the best good guy of all? Who is Mr. Nice Guy par excellence? (laughs) Hog love. Hog love. (laughs) The Holy Ghost who is love. Amen and amen. (laughs) That's it. That's what Pope John Paul II teaches. The greatest good guy of all... Ah, he doesn't put it quite like that. (laughs) But he takes this doctrine that the Holy Ghost is love, that the Holy Ghost is gift, and makes it into the fact that the Holy Ghost is the conversion of everybody. The Holy Ghost is, is everybody's conversion. The Holy Ghost is present in every man. The Holy Ghost is divine, therefore every man is divine, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. I mean, you know, it's... From the point of view of Catholic theology it's absolutely childish, childish. He just takes the, takes the words and, and fools around with them how he likes. And he's been pope for 20 years. And he means well. And he's convinced. Isn't it fun? Yeah, uh, that's why you're here. All right (clears throat) I've been having to look at, in some length and depth and breadth, uh, the encyclical on Dona Viticandam. Uh, this, the latest book of Professor Dumm, this, uh, the fourth book of Professor Dumm is about the encyclical on the Holy Ghost. It's hair-raising, absolutely hair-raising. The Ho- God comes up to a man. The Holy Ghost comes up to a man. God, the Holy Ghost opens himself, opens the depths of God to the man. The man then, well, opens himself. "Ah, thank you," says the Holy Ghost. "You're converted." (laughs) Isn't it nice? Have you ever heard anything so lovely? (laughs) I tell you. Oh, man. Uh, unbelievable, but I think he's pope. I do th- I, I personally think, still think he is pope. One, because he's too, he is too dumb to know what he's doing. He's book smart, but that doesn't mean to say you're smart. He's book smart, but outside of books he is dumb. As dumb as his feet. A- and the other thing is that he, um, uh, there's no authority above him that can back him up against the wall and say, "Look, you are as dumb as your feet, and this is why. Do you recognize it?" He says, "Yes, I do." "All right, well then do you recant?" "Yes." Okay, then he's no heretic. Or he says, "No, I don't... I, I, this is... Love, love, love is what life's all about, and this is the truth, and this is the good news." In that case you're a heretic, boom. Uh, that's it. There's no authority above the pope that can for- that can authoritatively confront him with his material heresies so as to make them into formal heresy. And as long as it's not formal heresy, God can, God can allow... You can see from the Book of the Apocalypse here, that God can allow an extraordinary amount of disorder and persecution of his church. He can. His, his church can seem almost to go under by the wickedness of men. That's what's happening today. Five equals seven. Five e- closely parallels the seven. The fifth age of the church, close parallel to the seventh age of the church. That's why what we are experiencing today is like what we're now reading about the Antichrist. All right, we go on. The, the, uh, verse 14. "And he seduced, the second beast seduced those dwelling upon the earth because of the signs which was, which were given it to do in the sight of the first beast."... telling the inhabitants upon earth that they should make an image of the first beast, which would have the wound, uh, uh, the first, which has the w- sword wound and which lived. So they're going to be circulated like pictures of the Sacred Heart with a great, with, with a wound in their heart. They're gonna be per- pictures, holy cards of the first beast circulated, and the second beast will sell the holy cards of the first beast in order to get everybody to adore the first beast and to admire how he rose from the dead. Image, the second beast, having seduced all carnal men... Like the new churches today seducing easily most Catholics, it does give them an easy deal. The second beast, having seduced all carnal men, will tell them to ape images of the Sacred Heart, will instruct them, will guide them, will push them to ape images of the Sacred Heart with images of the wounded and resurrected anti-Christ. (hissing) Verse 15. The second, uh, verse 15, and it was given to the second beast to give spirit to the image of the first beast such that the image of the first beast should speak and bring about that whoever should, did not adore the image of the first beast should be killed. So maybe it's not, uh, uh, holy cards of the Sacred Heart, maybe it's gonna be one statue which will be on wor- worldwide television, it'll be on satellite TV, and everybody will see the second beast coming up, the false lamb coming up to the image of the first beast and sort of doing abracadabra, and then hey presto, the image of the first beast is gonna speak. It'll be on TV and everybody will be, "Ah." All the televidiots, "Ah." Well, it's gonna be quite a scene. The second beast will have power from devils through the anti-Christ... to make the images of the anti-Christ talk. Maybe one image, maybe many. Maybe singular for singular, maybe singular for plural. The, the second beast will have power from devils through the anti-Christ. Always remember the beast, the second beast's power is instrumental and dependent upon the anti-Christ's principal power. The second beast will have power to make the images of the anti-Christ talk and to kill all who refuse to adore. It's gonna be tough. 16, and he will make all the weak, and the great, and the rich, and the poor, and the freemen, and the slaves to have a character upon their right hand or on their foreheads such that nobody can buy or sell unless they have that character or the name of the beast or the name, the number of his name, which is 666, verse 18. The, verse 16, the second beast will oblige all men to bear a mark of the first beast. And many of you know of course, uh, a lot of people think that the, they've now got these, what do they call them? Uh, transponder chips, yes, which go, which can, you can insert on, under your skin. They're bit, about the size of about a grain of rice. They go under your skin- (coughs) ... and then you just have to pass your hand under a machine or you don't even have to pass it under a machine. You simply have to pass within distance of some, uh, a, what do you, what's the receiver, is it? Or the re- and the receiver s- is const- is sending out a ray and the ray picks up the transponder and then goes back, goes back to the transmitter with the code on the transponder. There've been, uh, details upstairs about it. They're, they're inventing these things now, um, very useful for a pet, for instance. I mean, if you lose a pet and, uh, um, uh, they've got now with the satellites going overhead, they've got if they can plant certain, uh, little, uh, objects on you. Uh, for instance, either in the, in the heel- (coughs) ... of your shoe. If they can get ahold of a pair of your shoes and they cut off the heel and then they s- stick in one of these little things, then wherever you go, as long as you're wearing those shoes, the satellites can pick you up, wherever you are. That's what's going on already today. Th- that's, that's what already exists. Or it might also be something in a fountain pen. That, that's obviously another, or a pen in your pocket. That might also do it. Or th- you know, various gadgets. These, they're tiny little things. This dot, not much is needed, enough for the satellite, the sat... so the satellites can pick up exactly where you are. And of course, as one satellite goes on, the next one comes up over the horizon. And so in, in Virginia, Langley, Virginia, I think is the CIA center, uh, where they've got this huge, this huge, uh, the NA- A- N-A-S, no, um, what's it called? NSA, National Security Agency, the National Security Agency. NSA. (coughs) Uh, I think it's, uh, the CIA's in Langley, Virginia. The NSA I think is over, is that same area. I don't know exactly where.... and that's where the, all of the information of all of these satellites is constantly pouring in. And they can photograph, they can watch, you know, I mean, the satellites are now capable of sort of almost reading a license plate and, um, the bad guys, the quote unquote bad guys who have to, who want to g- get up to something without the satellites knowing, they have to try to get out, get, get out of view when they know a satellite is coming over them, and then, then they come, they come, get back out when the satellite's gone. So the bad guys, quote unquote, have to f- learn and find out when the satellites are coming over them. So that's the world we're living in. It's, um... Part of the chastisement may be the total destruction of all of those machines, or the rendering useless of all of those machines. Uh, will those machines be resurrected for the Seventh Age? I don't know, I, I don't know. But I, I s- I said in the December letter, I said, said that there, even if all the machines are wiped out at the chastisement, it will ready, ready, it will be much easier to recreate them than to create them because they won't need to be reinvented. People, if only a few people survive, still a few people will have the, will have the idea of a light bulb. For as soon as the idea of a light bulb before somebody invented it, but the, now you don't have to reinvent it, you just have to, you know, dream of how to rebuild it. You've got the idea already there, you just have to find a way to redo it because you know it's possible. All right, now, so the second beast will oblige all men to bear a mark of the first beast without which they won't be able to buy or sell anything. Figuratively, back to verse 14, figuratively speaking, this again is a second layer of interpretation, all men will have to model their behavior on that of the Antichrist, verse 14. Verse 15, the images speaking are the followers of the Antichrist babbling in tongues, et cetera. The followers of the Antichrist babbling in tongues. 16, the character, and he will make all of the s- le- the freemen poor, uh, freemen and slaves rich and poor and so on, everybody will have a character upon their right hand or upon their forehead, the character will be some rite, R-I-T-E, some ceremony aping baptism which of course imprints a sacramental character. Some ceremony aping baptism. Only it won't be in the name of the Father, of the Son, the Holy Ghost, it won't be in the name of the Holy Trinity, it will be in the name of the 666. Some ceremony aping baptism in the number, not of the Holy Trinity, but three, but verse 18, 666. All right, now 666. Um, here is wisdom. He that has understanding, let him calculate the number of the beast, for the number of the man is... for it is the number of a man, for it is the number of a man and the number is 666. Okay, verse 18, in this terrible crisis, wisdom will be needed to see that the Antichrist is neither God nor an angel, but just a man. The number is the number of a man. In this terrible crisis, the worst ever in the history of the church, wisdom is going to be needed to see that the Antichrist is neither God nor angel, but just a man. Once again, Christians, uh, Catholics, fasten your seat belts, don't lose your heads. Don't despair and don't give up. There are all kinds of theories about 666. Here is just a few that Dom Mollion judges to be the most serious. By Greek numbering, alpha equals one, beta equals two, gamma equals three, delta equals four, epsilon equals five, zeta equals six, eta equals seven, theta equals eight, et Cetera. Uh, alpha equals one, beta equals two. By Greek numbering, the Church Fathers single out three Greek words with a number value of 666. Um, they are the Greek words for giant, contrary honor, and I deny, Titan, an timeos, and arnaumai. Giant, contrary honor, and I deny. Therefore, say the Church Fathers, Catholics should situate the Antichrist by 666, 666 enables us to situate the Antichrist as a giant of pride, contrary to the honor of God, and denying all truth. That's the Church Fathers.Which I wonder if that's... uh, no, it can't be. I've not worked out those calculations but... a giant of pride opposing the honor of God and denying all truth. Also, as seven is the number of completion, seven sacraments, seven days, seven ages. What else is seven? Sacraments. Sacraments I've said. Gifts of the Holy Ghost. That's right. Days of creation, yes. As seven is the number of completion or perfection, so six is incompleteness and imperfection. Therefore, triple six is triple incompleteness. The Antichrist will never enter into the peace of God's seventh day or Sabbath. The Antichrist will never enter into the peace of God's Sab- the peace and protection of God's seventh day or Sabbath. I think you can see that as commentary upon 666, that's extremely sober. It quotes church fathers and it just quotes six being the figure of incompletion and imperfection, which again, is well known. Therefore, 666 is triple imperfection. Therefore, the Antichrist is a bad guy. That's fairly sober. There are all kinds of interpretations of 666. Like there are all kinds of interpretations of many other things in the Book of the Apocalypses wrapped in mystery. Any questions on chapter 13? Uh, Buddy? Is it possible that the Antichrist will be a bishop? Because there's- He... they- ... quite a lot of- Uh- ... history- ... they say he's going, some people say he's going to be the son of a bishop and a, uh, Jewess, something like that. But himself a clergyman, I don't think so. No. He wouldn't be glamorous enough. Uh, he couldn't, you cou- you couldn't capture the world's admiration as a clergyman, even as an apostate clergyman. To get the world going, you'd have to throw, completely throw aside all trace of being a clergyman. Don't you think so? To get the world going? I think so, yeah. Any other questions? Well, I forget who prophesies the... La- Our Lady of La- La Salette said he will be the son... I think Our Lady of La Salette said something about it. He will be the son of... in The Secret of La Salette, I think it is. The son of a bishop, a Catholic... son of a Catholic bishop and a Jewess, I think. I can't remember. Jewish rabbinate. Something like that, a Jewish name, something of that order. Who knows? (clears throat) All right, there will be an exam in six days time. Um, I advise you, uh, know the text. Look, 13 chapters is really not all that much. I, I admit it's difficult, I mean, it's obviously mysterious and so on. I advise you to sort of construct a schema. Um, uh, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven and then you're going to have letters and you're going to have seals, and then trumpets, and then the, um, the dragon. So what ages? Obviously, the letters is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. The seals is one, two, three, I think four, doo, doo, doo, doo and then it's whatever it is. Uh, work out against the fi- the seven ages of the church. Somehow or other you'll get, you'll get examined on it.