(instrumental music plays) Chapter 18, verse 2. Uh, "The angel which is Christ pre- proclaimed the, in all strength, the... in a way that couldn't be silenced, 'Babylon the great has fallen, has fallen. Is become the dwelling of deli- of, of devils and the, uh, r- am- amusement park of every unclean spirit, and of every unclean bird.'" Uh, Babylon, the empire of evil, welcoming all devils. Just think of New York. There has been, uh... I was telling you yesterday that the... in New York, these Jewish friends said that the Blacks are just waiting to let loose, and they've been misled with materialism which creates constantly rising expectations. The only thing that keeps people happy with materialism is that things are gonna get materially still better and still better. That's something they've managed to pull off, but they can't pull it off much longer. They, it can't... People still hope and expect things better, but, but actually as the standard of, standard of living has been falling in the United States now in real terms for go- for a little while. Now, both parents have to go out, the mother and the father. They can hardly keep up with two salaries. The standard of living they used to be able to keep up with one salary. In reality, uh, the standard of living has quite considerably fallen. Probably the high point in that respect was some of the early '70s probably. Since then, it's been really going down. The people don't, haven't yet... I don't think the people have yet realized there's, they've, the, the stock exchange has kept on going up. The stock exchange has been stalled for a little while now, but that's also created the illusion of things getting better and better. And the only way you can keep materialistic people happy is by giving them more and more goodies, but it's like the druggie, you, you have to give them more and more, big, heavier and heavier shot to keep them the same level of fix. So, it can't go on forever. And when, when the people who are f- hooked on material goodies no longer get them, they're gonna be very angry because it's all that they've got, it's all they believe in. It's, it's all that they've let themselves be persuaded to believe in. Gain... Oh gosh, no, we had a question about who's responsible, the leaders or the people? Uh, the answer is they're co-responsible of course, each according to his station. They're co-responsible with varying degrees of responsibility, but, uh, you may remember... I know that you weren't here because, but, uh, Dr. White was saying to the priests that in Shakespeare all the characters were responsible, and it's true. Uh, he was interesting. He was talking about Romeo and Juliet, it's a play he hasn't talked about you, talked about to you, and he was saying even the friar in Romeo and Juliet is responsible. The fr- you don't know the play probably, but it's the friar who fails to... I forget exactly now, but he, he, he's responsible too for the tragedy because he didn't... well, I forget. But, uh, uh, and of course, it, of course everybody's responsible. Of course the responsibility for the maiors is considerably greater than that of the menores because the maiors lead the menores, but the menores are responsible for who they let themselves be led by. Uh, listen right now, you know, uh, in Paris, is Saint Nicolas gonna survive or not? The politicians at that time, this is the late '70s, the politicians are calculating, they're, they're sensing all the time, that's their business. "What can we get away with? Uh, the people will react, we'll lose all our votes if we close down Saint Nicolas." And that's because there's the same reaction amongst the people. The people, all of the policemen are for the priests occupying. They won't lay a finger on Duke de Bourg. That's, that's virtuous on their part. The policemen could easily have been very different. The pa- the, the Paris population could easily have been so corrupt that all the policemen were just waiting to lay their hands on that silly old man and toss him into the, toss him into the slammer, but it wasn't the case. And if that had been the case, then Saint Nicolas would have been shut down. There's a popular... the, the, there's, there's a sense of the people, the... Saint Nicolas was a creation of the people in this sense that, uh, nobody was forced to get out, get up early on Sunday morning and go to that church at the other end of Paris as opposed to their little local parish. It was the, it was the, it... there's an example of the people responding virtuously. It's, you may say it's only a remnant or a m- minority of the people, but it's that, it's, it's that reaction on the part of the people which has enabled, uh, Saint Nicolas to stay open. No politician left it open for the love of Monseigneur Duke of Bourg, much though they may have liked the old man. But it was votes that mattered, and what they sensed was the feeling of the people, and there's a lot of Parisians who never put, set foot in Saint Nicolas but who wouldn't have approved of it being shut down. They would have disapproved of it being shut down. So that the, the support for Saint Nicolas wasn't just... as the politicians very well realized, the support wasn't just the people that actually went there. It was a popular reaction which was sensed. And I can remember the Archbishop saying he would sometimes, you know, he'd go through customs on the French-Spanish border-And, you know, one of the customs officers noticed that... well, he, he described it once to me. He noticed him sitting in the back and he put his head through the window, he said, (French), continue, continue. (laughing) Just this, this dumb customs man. But, you know, I mean, that's the, that's the... The people are responsible, make no mistake. Uh, who they react to and who they follow, they're still responsible for who they follow. And leaders, politicians are people who are all the time sensing what the people, where the people, how far the people will go, and, and what they will, what they will go with and what they won't go with. And they must have sensed somehow those chief priests and ancients, they got in amongst the crowd and they turned the crowd against Jesus. I mean, the crowd that had been shouting, "Hosanna, hosanna to the f- son of David," and the chief priest got in there, I don't know what they told the people. They told... they must have told them so and sold them some bill of goods. It was the hour of power of darkness and the hour of... It was your power and the hour of darkness. It was, uh... but the people are responsible. And they, the people certainly didn't have to shout out, "His blood be upon us and upon our children." But in that diabolical moment, that's what they got to shouting out. And then Pilate said, "Look, uh, I'm innocent. This, this man is innocent. I'm innocent of his blood." "His blood be upon us." I mean, they, they're crazy. It's no longer Barabbas. "His blood be upon us." It's, it's, it's not Barabbas. They, they want to kill Jesus. The whole crowd wants to kill him. Terrible. Terrible. They're responsible. Uh, numerically, obviously, the crowd is more responsible. Qualitatively, obviously, the leaders are more responsible. So (speaks Latin). Uh, so again, it's a scholastic distinction, but the people are responsible. A politician is always, even if he's a king, whether he's a king or a president, he's always somebody... It's, it's like a... What is the apocalypse? What has been the image in the book of the Apocalypse for the relationship between leaders and led? There was one, one image I can remember which is here in the Apocalypse. The horseman and the horse. Exactly, the horseman and the horse. Exactly. It's like the horseman and the horse. The horseman obviously has a lot to do with where, where the horse goes and how fast it goes. Either he digs in his spurs or he holds back the bridle, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. But nevertheless, there's... the horse sets limits to the horseman. And the horseman has to watch the horse. The horseman has... A skillful horseman is obviously all the time sensing the horse. Can it take this jump or not? And, and, and what it capable of and so on and so on and so on. Uh, the horseman has to deal with the horse that he has underneath him. Of course, a skillful horseman will get much more out of a horse than, than a, than an unskillful horseman. But the... if you've got a no good horse, even a skillful horseman won't get much out of it. So the... what, what do the politicians get out of the crowd? It doesn't depend only on the politicians. Far from it. Th- there's a definite response on the part of the crowd. I mean, take these awful television programs. The people, nothing forces any one household to turn on this channel or that channel. Nothing forces any one household even to buy a television set. They don't have to, but they do. Because television is an easy entertainment in the boring big city life. It's a boring life, the big city. Modern industrialized suburban life is boring and you need, quote-unquote, "I need entertainment." And television provides it. So they buy a television set and then the muck, "Oh, what trash. Oh, what trash. Let's see what's on. Oh, what trash. Let's see what's on. Oh, what trash. Let's see what's on." I mean, huh? Make up your mind. If it's trash, turn it off. If you turn it on, stop calling it trash. But of course, they know it's trash but they still watch. They're responsible. You know, we are responsible. We're, all of us, responsible. Of course every one of us is responsible because we're all gonna go in front of the judgment seat of God, and we're gonna be judged on how we... what use we've made of every single day of our lives. We'll be judged on every single day. Not one day was given us to be wasted or not one day doesn't count one way or the other in our own particular judgment. It all counts. Woo. So, um, then, uh, the, uh... Do-do-do-do-do. I forget, the... How did we get onto this again? Onto the same subject again? Um.  (speaks faintly) Sorry, the- (inaudible) Yes. Yes. Yes, that's right. There was good in New York. Um, to this day, if you walk down the streets of New York in a cassock, you're liable to see, "Oh, hello, Father. Hello, Father." To this day, because there were a lot of Italians and a lot of Irish there at one stage. And the whole police force then... or the good part of the police force was Irish at one stage. Um, and so there were... there was... and New York surprisingly, I can remember 15 years ago, surprisingly human until... probably still to this day, surprisingly human. But of course, the very environment, the very nature of the beast is, it's... there's no more supply. The supply of, of Catholic immigrants is being cut off, which made it human. And now you've just got the machines and the money, which is making it inhuman. And therefore, New York is necessarily by today getting more inhuman. And you got all of these Blacks who are being misled, et cetera. Uh, their fault. Their fault, but a greater responsibility of the race that's misled them.You're saying that the, the, the Black person is Yes. ... or the white person or because they know what has happened? Oh, I don't think it's conscious. They, they're of course the, the, the terrible white pro- the white... The liberal propaganda is terrible. The liberal propaganda is telling them all the time, "You've been unjustly treated. You've been exploited. You've go- you must claim..." I mean, there are white intellectuals who seriously believe that, you know, the slave trade should be paid back and every Black is a king, and every Black must be treated like a king. There are white intellectuals who seriously believe that and who... and they are given voice in the media, and the media are constantly pushing this idea about how noble they all are. There was a film came out recently, I forget what it was called, about a Black revolt on a slave ship coming over the ocean. Amistad, that's right. Yeah. That... Hollywood propaganda. Wonderful Blacks, excellent Blacks, uh, uh, oppressed Blacks just like Jews. Uh, of course, the Jews run Hollywood absolutely and so Schindler's List, uh, Schindler's List, uh, in German is called Schindler's Mist. I won't translate mist. But mist doesn't mean what it means in English, it means something else, it means some other four-letter words. Uh... (laughs) Might call it Swindler's Mist. Um, films like that and then films glorifying the Blacks, and the Blacks get this propaganda. I mean, this... In one film after another. I mean, you had th- the, the English Shakespeare film, uh, was it Beatrice and Benedict, Much Ado About Nothing. You had a brother and sister, one as black as the ace... and the actors is one as black as the Ace of Spades and the other is white as, as cream ivory. (laughs) And they're meant to be a brother and sister. I mean, come on. What's the common sense? But there's none. Uh, so this, th- the, you know, the, the, the Blacks are always the heroes and so on and so on, this propaganda is making them feel since they are not gifted academically and since they're not gifted at organizing and running things and being number one, uh, they're not gifted to be chief executive officers easily, most of them, then... And yet they're told they're equal and they don't observe themselves being equal. There's that war between reality and, and this Rousseauist equality. And the war is they're told, "You're equal, you're equal, you're equal." And they observe, "We're not equal, we're not equal, we're not equal." There is... there's a resentment there. In others, the whole false, all the false Rousseau system are building up a head of steam inside those Blacks which is going to explode them. Is that the answer to your question? That's my answer anyway. I mean, I don't think they are sort of... They've been fed this propaganda. This... It's liberalism that, that's, that's driving them crazy, just like it's driving the whites crazy. It drives the whites crazy, it drives the Blacks crazy in different ways because they're different races. But liberalism drives everybody crazy because everybody comes from God, everybody's meant by God to go to heaven, and everybody at the moment is turning away from God. So in different ways, it's the same basic problem. You know? It's how I would see it anyway. So it's going to explode. It's going to explode and it... uh, they say in French (French) uh, "It won't be stolen when it explodes, we'll have deserved it when it explodes." Um, poof, it's not going to be pretty. It's not going to be pretty. Well, we do our duty day by day and, uh, thank God for having the faith and then trust in God and we're in his hands. It's, uh, but it's, it... everything indicates that... ev- everything points to an explosion of some kind or other. It can't continue like it's going on. Babylon the Great has fallen. Uh, Spiritus Inmundi, unclean spirits are foul thoughts. The, the guardian, the guarding place, what's the English there? The guarding place of all foul thoughts, the, um, habitation and the hold of every unclean spirit and the hold of every unclean and hateful bird. Uh, unclean spirits are foul thoughts, unclean birds are sins of pride. Unclean birds are sins of pride. Flying high presumably, pride because of their flying high. Terrible pride. I was listening to three tapes of Malachi Martin the other day, he's made recently with Bernard Jensen, he said, "If you go out to, to a supper or dinner anywhere in New York today and you breathe even a word against homosexuality, abortion, contraception or anything like that, you're not invited back." That's taboo. You, you may not say anything against those immoral horrors. It's just becoming completely unacceptable to suggest that sins practiced by large numbers of people today are sins, unacceptable. Imagine. It's terribly grave. Uh, three, um, because all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are being made rich by the power of her delicacies. Uh, the wine of the wrath of her fornication, concupiscence of the flesh, the wine of fornication, concupiscence of the flesh. So you've had since the pride, the impure birds, the wine of fornication, sins of the flesh of which all the nations have drunk. All the nations stands here for all the unregenerate gentiles, all the unregenerate gentiles. And the kings of the earth have fornicated with her, with Babylon-You tr- you fly on an airplane, I mean, it... today, if you fly in, um, uh, first class, you'll sit with these businessmen. All- all they're interested in is business, and yet every single one of them gets out a- a big briefcase and they all open up the sheets and figures and how to make more profit and nuts and bolts and engines and details. Materialism, materialism, materialism. Oof. They- they- he- I wonder if any of them have a... and then, of course, what- wh- what is religion for any of them? If you talk about religion, religion is, it's- it's most likely to be Protestantism of one kind or another. And Protestantism which, of course, is relatively... it's either silly and/or insignificant. Religion? (exhales sharply) Nowhere in their thoughts. 'Cause some of them are decent men, and they have family, and they try to look after their families, and er... but, oh my, what- what is their mind full of? What have they got in their heads? Oof. I think I told you, I've personally, I've given up- given up holding conversations at 36,000 feet, because at 36,000 feet, any of them will say anything. "Oh, Father, uh-uh-uh. Tell me your thing. Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh." Then they land and get on with real life again, you know. That stuff up in the clouds is just silliness. Oof. Oof. Dear, oh, dear. They- they've all drunk of the wine of the wrath of fornication, and the kings of forni- the kings of the earth, the chief executive officers have all fornicated with materialism. They're all fornicating with materialism, spiritually speaking. And the merchants of the earth have become rich on the, uh, by the power of her delicacies. Uh, an- and here we have the concupiscence of the eyes. The merchants are the avaricious, the greedy materialists. They represent concupiscence of the eyes. They've made money by selling the world's pleasures. They've become rich by power of her delicacies. They've made money by selling the world's pleasures. Day after day after day in the seminary, glossy catalogs, beautifully produced catalogs, rows, rows and rows, and pages and pages and pages of completely useless and expensive items which most people must... well, if- if those catalogs keep coming, un- unsolicited, people have got to be buying those things, and somebody's got to making a lot of money selling all of those things. (Latin) That's exactly it. If you knew this book front to back, you'd know a lot more about the modern world than people who've done a lot of studying of it. Scripture's nailing it. Uh, verse 4. "And I heard another voice from heaven saying, 'Go out from her my people, that you be not partakers of her sins and that you receive not of her plagues." Another voice is our Lord, only this time, our Lord of mercy, not of justice. The angel of verse 1 is our Lord of justice, then the voice of verse 4 is our Lord of mercy, saying, "Go forth from it, my people. Go forth from Babylon. Leave Babylon. Get out of the big city." After- (coughs) Our bis- Archbishop has said it to a crowd, a huge crowd, the thousands of... I think it was 20,000 people at Le Bourget, France, in 8- 1987, which was the 60th anniversary of his priestly ordination. 1927? That was in '89. In '89, no, that's more like it, yes. That's more like it. He was born in 1906- 1905, wasn't it? Like- 1989. And ordained in 1939, that makes sense. 1989, yes. And he said to this huge crowd, if, you know... leave the cities, or- or go back to the country. He sort of said. He didn't lay a great emphasis on it, because for- for most people, it's not practical, of course. It's not something that just anybody can do. And it's not an easy thing to do, because the big city is, physically speaking, the soft life, and the country is, physically speaking, the hard life. It's not easy to go back. It's easy to leave the country for the city. It's not so easy to go from the city back to the country. But if possible, it's a wise thing to do. If reasonably possible, it's a wise thing to do. And many people realize, especially if it's for the children, these countries are a lot healthier and a lot more normal for the children. Although today, even the country is getting industrialized, and so on and so on and so on. So it's all absolutely hopeless. Don't think there's any hope. (laughs) Um, uh, so our Lord of mercy, who is calling the people to conversion and calling them to quit Babylon. But the archbishop did literally say, uh, you know, "Go back to the country," in 1989. Uh, "Go out from Babylon, my people, and do not partake in its crimes, and do not accept of its... uh, that you receive not of her plagues." Yes, "And do not receive of her plagues." (Latin) "Because her sins have reached up to heaven and the Lord has remembered her iniquities." Um, verse 5, "There comes a day of the Lord's reckoning." There comes a day of the Lord's reckoning, verse 5. Y2K.How many of you know anything much about Y2K? How many of you think you know nothing about Y2K? Uh, (laughter) logically, between something and nothing... Did I say very much or did I say just something? Very much. Very much. All, all right. Right, well then... (laughter) All right. There is something in between. Their contraries are not contradictory. Right, you might know something but not much. All right. Yes, okay. Um, it's serious. Uh, the, there are th- eight big banks in the United States which are spending $3.5 billion to tackle the problem. The banking industry as a whole is spending $10 billion. And the big motor car companies are spending between $1.5 billion. But of course, it isn't a problem. If you wanna know what people really think, watch what they do with their pocketbook. (laughter) If you wanna know what they really think, watch what they do with their pocketbook. And what they're doing with their pocketbook about Y2K is getting more and more serious. It's a bit late now, but, uh, but, um, the, the amusing thing, if you can call it amusing, is that this is a disaster which men are not gonna be able to blame on God. You might blame earthquakes, and drought, and fire, and, uh, and all of those things, I mean, you know, bush fires, forest fires, all kinds of those things, you know, all natural disasters you can blame on the Lord God, but Y2K is an entirely artificial disaster, and men could have foreseen it 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 years ago. They could easily have fixed it 30 years ago if they just tried, and thought about it, and wanted to. But it's entirely men's fault that they neglected this problem until now. It's gonna be a real problem. You will, uh, go home for Christmas vacations I guess. How soon how many of you will be able to get back? I don't know. Some of you may choose to stay here in order to n- n- n- not have to move. I don't know. It's a serious problem. Amongst other things of course, if the, the power goes down, and it's very possible the power will go down, very possible for a variety of reasons, 'cause the whole thing, the... You know, I mean, this is Babylon. This is Babylon. We're, we're surrounded by Babylon. Babylon is propped on, it's built on sand, on silicon chips. Do you know the main component of silicon is sand? Uh, or the main component... Sorry, the main component of sand is silicon. Um, it's a world built on silicon chips. And, uh, the chips are embedded, embedded deep in these, in these, uh, mainframe computers, for instance, are all of these little chips which it's, you just don't know which, what's going to go wrong. And, and they're designed of course, if something... The, the systems are designed to shut down to prevent damage if, if something doesn't, serious, doesn't work. So many of those systems are simply gonna shut down. But the whole thing is so carefully inter- interlocked. And to cut back on costs, for instance, so many of the producers, it's a hairline margin. For instance, they've got only, in the, in the stores, they've got only two or three, two or three days supplies most. Then in two or three days time another truck is gonna come and fill up on their gaps. But, uh, all of those gaps, what's, what's in the store and what isn't in the store, it's all done by computer. As, I'm sure as you check out, uh, it goes through the computer. It, it reads the little barcode. It goes into the computer, and in the, in the store's main computer they, they know exactly what's gone out of the store, therefore what needs replacing, therefore there's an automatic order goes through to the depot where the trucks come from. The whole thing is hai- uh, is hairline adjusted to cut down on, um, uh, what do you call it, store... Uh, it's not just the s- the grocery stores, but in, in all manufacturing. Uh, General Motors depends upon a zillion suppliers and if 10,000 men, this, I think it was last summer, in General Motors, strike, then the whole thing is immobilized, the whole massive machine is immobilized. Because with this, with this pursuit of profits, profits, profits, money, money, money, the bottom line, the bottom line, the bottom line, then you want to cut back on inventory as much as possible. You, you don't keep things in the s- you, you don't keep a store ready there, you just have the trucks come at the last moment according to the computers to deliver what you need at that moment. And the whole thing is then, is, is, is hairline operated and so something going wrong... And there's, there's no, there's no slack in the whole system. It's so tautly, uh, tightly and tautly pulled together that if one spot, one part just bl- locks rigid, and with these computers, it will lock rigid, the whole thing's gonna be stopped. It's very grave. And do you think that the people are gonna be able to go back to the country overnight? No way. No way, Jose. Uh, in the CIA, the Central Intelligence Agency, those are people who are supposedly a bit smart, secundum nomen at least, uh, they are, I think, telling their employees to stock up, to stock up some foodstuffs, and to stock up some materials, stock up o- on what they may need at home in order to last out a siege. But if you imagine cutting off electricity, imagine electricity just not being there. W- we're dependent upon electricity, absolutely dependent upon electricity. Um, I mean, I'm not that old. For instance, to have ever had to shave with anything except an electric razor. I've never had to use anything except an electric razor. But if there isn't current in the wall and if, and if they can't recharge the batteries-I'm going to have to go and get a carving knife in the kitchen. (laughs) It's terrible. Imagine. (laughs) I tell you, just wait. Just wait. And of course, I wouldn't like to be in the shoes of the people in authority for all the tea in China, because they've got to, uh, uh, steer a very fine line because nothing that can shut down, which has shut down everything is banking. If the banks shut down and then the checks don't get processed, imagine what happens then in the big cities when those who depend upon welfare checks and food stamps don't get them. Just imagine. Like the crowds in Rome that, that, uh, the politicians had to make sure in Rome that the, that the crowds got their bread. Otherwise, Rome was torn to pieces. Um, but what was I going to say? Um, before I mentioned, uh, bread and circuses, um, I was going to say something else. Hmm. What was I going to say just before I got onto Romans? You were going to say (inaudible) Yes. Uh, uh, banking is another thing. If that shuts down... Before banking, where were we? Electricity. Electricity, yes. If the, if the banks shut down, the whole thing seizes up. Um, it's, it's very serious. Uh... It's a hairline balance. That's it. It's a hairline balance. You tell the people too much, there'll be a panic, and they will precipitate the, the, the, the, the disaster if the people panic. You tell them too little and nobody's going to be prepared, and there's going to be a disaster. How much do you tell the people? Ooh. They're very much afraid. The banking, uh, industry is very much afraid of bank runs because, of course, with the fractional reserve banking system, same problem. The fractional reserve banking means that you've got as... that you lend out, uh, to, uh, 10 people, or let's say to 1,000 people relying on the fact that of those 1,000, only 100 at any one time will want their money back, and therefore you keep on in reserve in the bank money for, say, 150 at the most. You've lent out to 1,000 or, or, and 1,000 or, or you, you, you've taken from them or whatever it is, and 1,000 could come back and claim their money. No. What is it? Uh, uh, 1,000 have deposited and you've lent out to 10,000. I think that's it. 1,000 have deposited and you, you've lent out to... Because of those 10,000, only 700 will ever come back at one time. Now, if you keep, if you keep 1,000 in the bank, then you can cover demands. But if everybody that you've lent out to demanded at the same time, that's when the banks, uh, that's when it would go to bank run and the bank has to shut down, and a whole lot of depositors who thought that they had money in the bank, they find out that they haven't. There's nothing there, because the bank lent out real money to a few people, and then the rest, it j- it just lent out pieces of paper saying, "We, we..." And then when e- when somebody brought back a piece of paper, the bank gave them money because nobody would bring back their piece... N- you'd not normally get too many people... How many of you understand the expression fractional reserve banking? Hands up. Uh, how many of you reckon you don't understand it, know nothing about fractional reserve banking? Yeah. Well, it's worth knowing about because again, that's, that's a ma- a m- a major part of the modern system. There's... So, um, if, if people get scared today about whether the electro- electricity is going to be there for the electronic exchange of money, because of course now money isn't even pieces of paper. It's just blips, electronic blips on, on the screen. That's all it is. It doesn't have to be pieces of paper. So people are scared that, you know, the electricity is going to go down and their money's going to disappear, they're going to go to the bank in order to get pieces of paper, at least pieces of paper. If they all go to the bank to get pieces of paper at the same time, there's not going to be enough piece of paper to go round. (laughs) The banking system will crash. Oh, it's going to be fun. (laughs) I look forward to fun. All right, there comes verse 5, "Because their sins have reached up to heaven, and the Lord has remembered their iniquities." The Lord has said, "You believe in computers, well, see how computers look after you. You believe that you and your smartness and your computer is going to be able to run it all, try it and see." And man with his smartness is running the computers into this Y2K crisis, and it looks like being serious. It looks like being serious. The big motor companies and the banks don't spend billions and billions and billions of dollars on a non-problem. Uh-uh. So it's serious. There comes a day of the Lord's reckoning. Uh, verse 6, "Render to her as she also has rendered to you and double unto her double according to her works, in the cup wherein she hath mingled, mingle ye double unto her." So, to punish the world for persecuting the saints, God allows the saints to judge the world. Verse 6. Now, see, it's God giving his in- giving his instructions to the saints. "Render to her as she also has rendered to you," so you saints, give Babylon back what Babylon gave to you, "and double onto Babylon, double according to her works." What, whatever she did nasty to you, you can do twice as nasty back to her. So to punish the world for persecuting the saints, God allows the saints to judge it, the 12 tribes of Israel. Double, verse 6, "They harmed your body, you judge them body and soul." They harmed your body, you judge them body and soul. They hurt you outwardly, you condemn them also to despair inwardly.As much as, um, she hath glorified herself, and lived in delicacies, so much torment and sorrow give ye to her. Because she said in her heart, "I sit aqueen, and am no widow, and sorrow I shall not see." (paper rustling) As much as B- Babylon hath glorified herself and was in delights, as much as New York hath glorified itself and exalted in its, uh, technology, its... and its comforts, that is exalted in its comforts, and its- the skillfulness of its way of life, so much give it torment and grief because in her heart, Babylon says, "I sit as aqueen." Babylon believed itself invulnerable. Verse seven, Babylon believed itself invulnerable, like all hardened sinners... "I sit like aqueen. Nobody can touch me. Our materialistic way of life, our constitution, our liberalism, we are wonderful. We are untouchable. We've got the whole thing under control. We've beaten disease. We've beaten the Arabs. We've beaten everybody and everything. We are queen." (person coughing) "And I am not a widow. In other words, I need- I need no consolation like widows need consolation. I need no consolation like widows need consolation." (paper rustling) "And I s- I wear smiley-smiley buttons all the time." (laughing) "With me, things are always on the up and up." (foreign language) "Nothing can touch me. Nothing can touch us in our superb materialism." Ha, Y2K. Nothing can touch Babylon in her... (coughs) That's, uh, that's what people think today. A lot of people are gonna go in denial over Y2K. "Oft, we'll solve it. Oft." "Therefore, in one day, January the 1st, 2000, will come plagues. Uh, therefore, shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine, and she shall be burnt with the fire, because God is strong, who shall judge her." Therefore, on one day, suddenly, God will punish. She thought she was strong. She will meet with death. She can't overcome death. She w- thought everything was on the up and up, grief. She thought she had everything organized, hunger. "Therefore, shall her plagues come in one day, death and mourning and famine." Death, and grief, and hunger, death and mourning and famine. "And she shall be burnt with the fire." She will be cast into hellfire. "Because God is strong, who shall judge her." Wow. (coughs) Imagine the discouraging effect if you don't have a strong faith, or even, let's suppose, a strong Protestant... Uh, faith is not the right word, but a strong, strong Protestant convictions, let's just say. Um, imagine the discouraging effect of this whole Clinton affair. "What's the point? Why should I be good? Why should I tell the truth? What- why should I bother to tell the truth? Why- w- what does perjury matter? What does justice matter? What does truth matter? Everybody's doing it. Why shouldn't I do it as well? Eat, drink, and be merry, tomorrow we die. We'll kick up our heels and enjoy ourselves, as everybody else is doing." Right? Oh, you gotta have strong convictions to stand up to an example like that. It's scandalous, absolutely scandalous. The most serious citizens in the country, supposedly, the 100 senators, that's a noble name, Senate, senator, supposedly the most serious citizens in the country (blows raspberry) trashing truth and justice, voting say, no against truth and justice. Poof. "But nobody's gonna touch me. W- Our way of life is untouchable. We are superb. No grief or mourning or death around here." Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You'll see. "God is strong, who shall judge her." Poof. Darn sight stronger than they are. "And the kings of the earth who have committed fornication," nine, "and lived in delicacies with her shall weep and bewail themselves over her when they shall see the smoke of her burning."... the chief executive officers will see the- (coughs) ... pillar of smoke arising from New York City, all that's left of New York City, the ones that were lucky enough to get out, or unlucky enough to get out. They may consider that the ones that got frazzled and fried to a cinder together, uh, in, in the city, were the lucky ones. Uh, verse nine, um, "The worldlings will be horrified at their imminent punishment." (clicks tongue) Verse nine. Verse 10, "Standing afar off for fear of her torments, saying, 'Alas, alas that great city Babylon, that mighty city! For in one hour is thy judgment come.'" I bet you the Arabs are just, are dreaming of somehow or other dropping some mega weapon on New York City. Why? One guess. (background noise) All right, I don't need to say. Uh, it's not because of the Americans. Uh, uh, uh, standing afar off, uh, now they stand far away from worldly delights. Now, as they see New York destroyed, they no longer believe in their computers. Now they see that the whole shebang was false. Now standing afar off, now standing a- far from worldly delights. The worldlings lament, "Woe, woe that great city Babylon, that strong city! In one hour has come thy judgment." The worldlings lament the total destruction of everything for them except Hell. 1929 when the wa- the stock exchange collapsed, you may know, the stock ex- the stock brokers jumped out of the windows on Wall Street because there's, there's nothing for them except... it's all they believed in that collapsed. They just jumped out the window. One last ride until they hit the pavement. (laughs) One last fun trip. Splat. Then the municipality has to come in and clean up. Uh, the worldlings lament the total destruction of everything for them except Hell. And you know, this time round is going to be much worse than 1929. Much worse. In 1929, people were not that far removed from the country and a lot of people still had what you might call survival skills. The country was nothing like in the amount of debt that it is in now and so the, the bankruptcies and so on were not nearly as great as they, as they're going to be. And then of course also there was still some charity then. I mean people still had some... today (exhales) there was still someone of unselfishness then but that was... 1939 was like a sort of preview of what's going to happen in one way or another today. I don't know how, I don't know when, but B- Babylon of, of modern materialism stands condemned because the- God is strong and He's not deceived and He's going to judge. Wait and see. Um, verse 11. Um, "Alas, alas that great city Babylon, that mighty city! For in one hour is thy judgment come. And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, for no man shall buy their merchandise anymore." No more glossy catalogs nor will there be any pornography at that moment. The pornography will also get shut down and that's one reason why God is going to punish, to shut down the pornography. It's going to take a mega disaster to shut it down but He will, He will do that. So verse 11 is a parallel lament for the devotees of concupiscence of the eyes. Literally from 11, 11 onwards you've got a literal sense and a spiritual sense. The literal sense is a lament for devotees of concupiscence of the eyes, the merchants. The merchants stand for concupiscence of the eyes, money. Money and pleasure. Concupiscence of the eyes, well not... pleasure in a broad sense, in a money sense. All right, we'll continue Thursday. (chair rolling)