End of Chapter 4. Um... Um... Verse seven. "The... An animal like... The first living creature was like a lion, the second living creature like a calf, the third living creature... and their faces were of a man, the fourth living creature was like an eagle flying." Uh, the lion, Mark, Jesus Christ victorious, conquering like a lion. The calf, Luke, Jesus Christ sacrificed. The man, Matthew, Jesus Christ human. Matthew starts with the human gene- genealogy of our Lord and, uh, the eagle, Saint John, uh, presenting the divinity of our Lord. And these qualities of Christ, human, divine, victorious, and sacrificed, must also become the qualities of the Christian. This is the first of the visions after the... it's the vision of the throne of God, the 24 ancients, the four living creatures. Uh, verse eight. "And the four living creatures had, each of them, six wings, and round about and within, they're full of eyes, and they rested not day and night, saying, 'Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come.'" The wings are virtues lifting the soul above the present world. The six wings are six steps to lift the soul towards the peace of God. Or the six steps up which to climb. I gave you the senses, the imagination, the reason, the intellect, the intelligence, and the summit of the mind. The distinction between intellect and intelligence is, is not a scholastic distinction, but, um, it's probably the... (sneezes) Excuse me. The intuitive grasp of natural things, intellect, and the intuitive grasp of supernatural things, the intelligence. I don't know. "Each animal," it says, uh, "and the four living creatures had, each of them, six wings." Each Gospel contains its ascent to God, its climb towards God. "Round about and within, they are full of eyes." The saints watch over their actions and thoughts. So these animals stand for the four Gospel ev- evangelists, they also stand for every Christian. The saints watch over their actions around, and their thoughts within. Vigilati et orati, watch and pray. The saints keep watch within themselves and around themselves. "And they rested not day and night." No rest, they're continually praising God. Continually praising God. Canticle of Canticles Chapter 5 Verse 2. Um. (murmuring) Hmm. Hmm. Uh, day and night, in good fortune and in bad. Day is good fortune, night is in bad fortune. "Holy, holy, holy," Isaiah 6:2, that was the vision of Isaiah. Famous vision of Isaiah. "In that year, in the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and elevated, and his train filled the temple. Upon it stood the seraphims. The one had six wings, and the other had six wings. With two, they covered his face. With two, they covered his feet, and with two, they flew. And they cried one to another and said, 'Holy, holy, holy, the Lord God of hosts, all the earth is full of his glory.'" Which of course we have in the Mass. Verse nine. "When those living creatures gave glory and honor and benediction to him that sit on the throne who liveth forever and ever..." Uh, "living creatures" are the multitude of saints. The multitude of saints giving glory to God forever and ever. Ten. "The four and 20 ancients fell down before him that sitth on the throne and adored him that liveth forever and ever and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, 'Thou art worthy, O Lord our God, to receive glory and honor and power, because thou hast created all things, and for thy will they were, and have been, created.'" Crown, the crowns are the merits of their works, lay- which they lay at the feet of God, or which they cast at the feet of God.The crowns are the merits of their works. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying... crowns. Crowns, the merits of their works, which they cast at the feet of God. "Thou art worthy, O Lord, our God, to receive glory and honor and virtue because thou has created all things, and because of thy will, they were and have been created." Notice, "For thy will, they were," at the very end of chapter 4, "and have been created." God created by choice and not by necessity. Nothing forces God's will. The creation is a free choice of God. Is it heresy to say that he created by force or by necessity? Certainly error. I'm not sure there is heresy. (papers rustling) Any questions on chapter 4? Charlie? Your Excellency, in, uh, Greece, uh, your mention presbuteros. Presbuteros. Presbuteros. Is there any, is there's any possible connection with, uh, - No. Presbuteros. Presbus is old in Greek. Presbuteros is the comparative meaning older, so it simply means an elder. The priest, the, the word is transferred to priest because priests are supposed to be old by their premature wisdom if they're young. Priest is meant, meant to behave seriously and in a fashion befitting somebody of more years than he actually has. That's the theory. And it's from presbuteros that you've got, uh, priester in German, prêtre in French, uh, priest in English obviously. Um, in Latin, uh, Italian and Fr- Spanish, they use, um, they use sacerdos, sa- sacerdotus. Sa- but the, in many languages, it comes from presbuteros originally. Okay? That's why it's called an elder. So d- it originally meant an elder, and then it's, it takes on the technical meaning of somebody ordained. Any other questions? That's the vision of the throne of God. We come now, chapter 5, to the vision of the Lamb, the Lamb before the throne of God. All right. The Lamb before the throne of God. The Lamb and the seals, S-E-A-L-S, and they're not baby seals. (laughs) It's funny that you've got exactly the same word with two so different meanings, it's a seal and a seal, so. Uh, and then the chapter 7, 6 and 7 are the opening of the seals. Uh, the Lamb and the seals. "And I saw," chapter 5, "on, on, in the right hand of him that sat on the throne, a book written within and without, sealed with seven seals." Two, "And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, 'Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof?'" Three, "And no man was able, neither in heaven, nor on earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor to look on it." Four, "And I wept much bl- because no man was found worthy to open the book, nor to see it. Um, "And I saw on the right of one sitting on the throne, a book." The book is literally, and then it's allegorically. Literally, it's John's prophecy of the seven seals. It's also the Bible, with its outward and literal sense, written out, written without, within and without, a book written within and without.It's the Bible with its within sense and its without sense. In other words, its inner sense and its outer sense. In other words, its lit- spiritual inner sense and its literal outer sense. It mentions within first but the... So the book written within and without is the bo- is the Bible with its inner spiritual sense and its outer literal sense. For instance, the outer and literal sense of Abraham's two sons is the free man, the free Isaac, and the slave Ishmael, the child of the slave woman and the child of the freeman. The a- the spiritual meaning is Gentile and Jew, the Gentiles and the Jews. Or the church and the synagogue, let's say. Um, that's just an example that you know from some form. The outward s- literal sense, the inward spiritual sense. Antioch was famous for the outward spiritual s- outward sense, and Alexandria pursued... was more famous for its grasp of the inward sense. The seals, signed with seven seals or sealed with seven seals. Sealed with seven seals. The seven seals are the seven mysteries of Christ's redeeming mission. The seven mysteries of Christ's redeeming mission. The c- His conception, March 25th, birth, December 25th, thirdly, His passion and death, fourthly, His descent into hell, fifthly, His resurrection, sixthly, His asc- ascension into heaven, and seventhly, His second coming. He will come again to judge the living and the dead. The... These, uh, mysteries are sealed to all eyes except of the faith. No disbeliever can understand how the life of our Lord is the key to creation or the key to the meaning of life. These seven, seven seals are closed to all except the eyes of faith. Um, allegorically, so that's what the book is literally, allegorically, the book is the humanity of Christ containing all treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Where's that one from Saint Paul? Darby? Colossians? I think so, yes. I would look for it in Colossians 1, 2, 3, or 4. I would look for it in 2 myself. I hope w- I hope, I hope I would find it there. Colossians 2, I think. In any case, it's not of any significance here. The humanity of Christ contains all treasures of wisdom and knowledge with an obvious sense and a deep sense, with an... written without and within. The obvious sense is love. The deep sense is the full knowledge of the sacred heart. Anybody can see that He must have loved in order to die, but the full depth of that love is contained within. Saint Thomas Aquinas says that he learned more by looking at the cross, by contemplating the cross than by all the learned books that he ever read. So there's a deep sense of the cross. So the, allegorically, the book stands for the humanity of Christ with its obvious sense and its deep sense. The deep sense closed to faith-disbelieving eyes. Verse 2.Uh, "And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, 'Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof?'" The angel is the Doctors of the Old Testament, expressing their frustration. They, they can't read inside because they didn't know Christ. The Doctors of the Old Testament, strong in patience, waiting for the Messiah. And the Doctors of the Old Testament who know the mysterious prophecies from the Old Testament about the Messiah, but those prophecies are mysterious. It's only looking back that we know how to read them clearly. They knew these promises without knowing the, the meaning as we do. Therefore they, the, the, these doctors said, "Who can fulfill the promises? Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? Who can fulfill the promises? Who is worthy to offer the sacrifice?" The sacrifice is spoken of in the Old Testament, Malachi. The promises are in many places. "Who can fulfill these promises? Who is worthy to offer the sacrifice?" The, the Old Testament doctors didn't know and they, they cried out with a loud voice. J- John sees a str- a great angel standing for the doc patient and wise, but unseeing because they were born too early, Doctors of the Old Testament. "Who is worthy to open the book? Who is going to o- reveal these secrets that we have in the Old Testament? Who is going to offer the sacrifice that we, we know of in the Old Testament, that's foreseen in the Old Testament?" Christ would firstly open and fulfill the mysteries. He would reveal the mysteries by fulfilling them, and he would unseal their meaning (coughs). Now, a, a little point here. It's strange that you get firstly, open the book, and secondly, break the seals. The, the normal order would be to break the seals in order to open the book. Why open the book in front of break the seals? Because Christ lived the mysteries first and then opened up their meaning. So i- it was in that he firstly fulfilled the mysteries and secondly unsealed their meaning. Therefore, the order is as Christ... Not the natural order of the way you open an ordinary book, but the order in which Christ did it, which was to fulfill the mysteries and then unseal their meaning. Verse three. "And no man was able, neither in Heaven nor on Earth, nor under the Earth to open the book, nor to look on it." Uh, for the duration of the Old Testament, it was a closed book. Nobody else, not even the blessed Virgin Mary, could get near the mystery. You may remember, wha- how wa... What would you cite in order to prove that not even the blessed Virgin Mary could get near the mystery? Down Guard. (inaudible) Yeah. "Son, why have you done these things to us? Why have you done this thing to us? For three days, thy father and I have been seeking you." And she did not... They... And they did not understand the answer that he gave them, which d- "Did you not know that I must be about my father's business?" And they did not understand this answer. So not even the blessed Virgin Mary could unders- could get near the mystery. Verse four. "And I wept much because no man was found worthy to open the book nor to see it." Um, John weeps for the unhappiness of the world awaiting the Messiah. Luke 10:24, Psalm 41:4. "For I say to you that many prophets and kings have desired to see the things that you see and have not seen them, and to hear the things that you hear and have not heard them." That's our Lord speaking from Luke 10:24. John weeps for the unhappiness of the world waiting for the Messiah. "And one of the elders said to me, 'Do not weep.'"Weep not. Be- behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David has prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. An- an- an elder of the Old Testament consoles John with an Old Testament consolation. Christ will come, the Messiah will snatch like a lion, mankind as his prey. Uh, Isaiah 31 verse four. Isaiah 31 verse four. For thus saith the Lord to me, "Like as the lion roareth and the lion's whelp upon his prey, and when a multitude of shepherds shall come against him, he will not fear their voice nor be afraid of their multitude, so shall the Lord of hosts come down to fight upon Mount Zion and upon the hill thereof." So one of the meanings of that verse is the Messiah coming to snatch mankind from the devil and nothing will scare our Lord or shake him off his pray, shake him fr- away, shake him out of snatching his prey. So the elder consoles John that the Messiah will come like a lion. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah has conquered, the root of David, to open the book and to s- and to, uh, break the seven- break its seven seals. Verse six. And I saw- And so, what did he see? Did he see a lion? No. He saw a lamb. So the- the- he's been told the lion will come, and he- And I saw and behold in the midst of the throne were the four living creatures and in the midst of the entrance, a lamb standing as it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth. And I saw and behold in the midst of the throne under the four animals... Well, obviously refer- referring back to ver- chapter four. And in the midst of the elders, a lamb. So the lion arrives and it's a lamb. The conquering lion arrives and turns out to be a lamb, a bleeding lamb. Jesus Christ conquers by his gentleness. Behold, he was like a lamb in the hands of those that shear him, Isaiah. The lamb standing as though killed. Now, that's bizarre. Standing as though killed, having seven horns and seven eyes. The lamb standing, it is active. He's active. He's not lying down or sitting down. As though killed, he conquers by his death. It's his death that is the most act- is the most active thing he did. He conquers standing as though killed. He conquers by his death. He has seven horns and seven eyes. Or rather, sorry, he- he's- he's standing as dead because Christ remained the master of death. He ch- he was the master of his own death. He entered into it and he raised himself from it. He entered into it by his own choice and he raised himself from it. Christ remained the master of death. John 10 verse 18, "Of myself I lay my- I lay down my life." Christ remained the master of death. At no point was he overpowered by his enemies in such a way that he could not have stopped them. The lamb standing like killed, having seven horns and seven eyes. The horns are... A horn always stands for strength, like a rhinoceros' horn or a bull's horns. Obviously the horns of a bull, you know, are that by which a bull kills, besides its weight and thrust. It pierces with its horns. So the horns are a sign, uh, uh, stand for strength. Seven horns are protectors of the soul against the seven vices. So the lamb has seven horns.... and seven eyes... which are the seven spirits of God, sent upon the whole Earth. The eyes are what... So, the seven spirits of God sent upon the Earth are the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost. The seven gifts of the spirits of God are the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost... earned for the world by the death of the Lamb, and therefore sent upon the whole world. And these seven... it's these seven gifts that protect the soul against vices, and as eyes, discern for the soul the path to the seven virtues. You know, there are seven vices, seven virtues, seven gifts. Seven capital vices, seven cardinal virtues, seven gifts of the Holy Ghost. These seven spirits of God are the seven gifts of the Holy Ghost which protect the soul against the seven vices, and therefore are horns which discern for the soul the path to the seven virtues, and therefore are eyes. Defensive as horns, offensive, if you like, as eyes. The seven spirits of God earned by the Lamb for mankind, and then sent upon mankind. Imagine trying to ma- make a picture of that, standing as though dead. Seven horns and seven eyes, try to make that not look ugly or bizarre. You'd need an artist. You'd need a real artist. And so verse seven, "And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat on the throne." This is the Lamb, obviously, came and took the book from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne. He came, et incarnatus est, and the Lamb came as the incarnation. He came and took flesh. So, the Book of the Seven Seals is like the mystery of our Lord's life before our Lord came. It's a sealed book of which the doctors of the Old Testament have only certain scraps, so to speak, scraps and flashes, but they can't put it all together. And then the Lamb comes and these mysteries are revealed in a dazzling light for the eye- those that have eyes to see. The Pharisees can't see it. The Pharisees are completely blind. He's just a Nazarene carpenter. But the... those, those that have eyes of faith to see, like the blind boy in John, in John 10... John 9, I'm sorry, John 9, the boy that was born blind and is cured by our Lord. Who is he? It is he that speaks to thee, and, uh, a gospel during Lent. And the- uh... This is a classic example of faith. Um... Jesus heard that they had cast him out and, and when Jesus had found the boy cured of his blindness, he said, "Dost thou believe in the Son of God?" He answered and said, "Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?" Jesus said to him, "Thou hast both seen him and it is he that talketh with you." And he said, "I believe, Lord," and falling down, he adored him. Uh, and Jesus said, "For judgment I have come into this world, that they who see not may see, and they who see may become blind." And some of the Pharisees who were with him heard and they said unto him, "Are we also blind?" And Jesus said to them, "If you were blind you should not have sin, but now you say we see, your sin remaineth." Um... well... so that's just an example of the mysteries of our Lord revealed by our Lord Himself, opened by our Lord, seen by the blind, and unseen by the seeing. Seen by the poor young man that's despised by the world and that was, was blind beforehand, and not seen by the Pharisees who have everything in th- their favor to, to grasp it. They miss it, and so on. He took the, the book from the one, from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne, and when he had opened the book, four animals... the four living creatures and the four and 20 angels fell down before the Lamb having every one of them harps and golden vials, V-I-A-L-S, full of odors which are the prayers of saints. Incense is quite often prayer going up to the Lord. Incense stands for prayer. So, like gold stands for charity, incenses will often stand for prayer. When He had opened the book, uh-Christ fulfilled all of the prophecies, all of the sealed prophecies. He fulfilled all of the sealed, the closed prophecies by living the redemptive mysteries. His life opened the book. And when he had opened the book, by his life, 33 years, when Christ had opened the book, the four living creatures and 24 elders fell down before the lamb, having each of them harps... and vials. The harp is mortification, and the vial, the golden vials are prayers. Uh, why is a harp mortification? Because on a harp, the strings are stretched taut, and when they're struck, they give, they give out a harmonious sound. So, the 24 elders, um- When the seminaries are all doing penance, they behave themselves better. Oh, you believe that if you have the faith. But the idea of a harp, something stretched taut and then giving out harmonious sound when you strike it, that's mortifica- that's, that's an image of mortification. Whereas the stre- the string that is not stretched taut can't give out any music at all. The slack, lazy, sensual soul has got no s- gives out no spiritual music, but the soul stretched taut by mortification and struck by penance gives out a harmonious sound. So, that's why they're harps. Golden vials full of odors. This is hearts full of charity pouring forth the perfume of prayer. So, the vials are golden, golden vials. The vials are hearts, golden hearts full of prayer, pouring f- full of the odors of prayer, like incense. Golden hearts pouring forth incense of prayer. Golden hearts full of charity pouring forth incense of prayer. As he says, "Which are the prayers of the saints." There you've got a S- uh, St. John explaining himself. "And every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints." There he explains what it is. So, for every time that he explains a detail, you can guess that all of the other details do have some explanation. He just occasionally gives it. There's an example. We had another one, the candlestick was the church and the, uh, star was the bishop. That's another example where he explained the detail of his vision. So, for every detail that he explains, you have to under- we know for certain, we have to work out the meaning of the other details. Full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song, um, known as Prayer and Penance or Prayer and Mortification are the two instruments of spiritual advancement. Prayer and mortification, the two instruments of spiritual advancement. So, the 24 elders fall down at the feet of the lamb. Having each one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song saying, "Worthy art thou, Lord, to receive the book and to open its seals, because thou has been killed and has redeemed us for the Lord in thy blood from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And thou has made us to the, to, to our God, a kingdom and priests. And we shall reign over the earth." Obviously, these are the just from the Old Testament and the New Testament. The j- the, the just of the Old Testament by anticipation of Christ's merits, the just of the New Testament by, uh, faith in Christ, explicit faith in Christ. Uh, they sang a new song, a canticle of the world's renovation by the gospel. A canticle of the world's renovation by the gospel. The, um... s- the, the great kings and the great prophets desired to see what you see and to hear what you hear. And it was closed to them. In the Old Testament, it was all closed to them. Now it's open to the, to the inhabitants of Bethsaida and Chorazin to, to, to Joe Blow, can know about the secrets of Christ. I mean, you can know what Christ did. The, the Messiah is revealed to Joe Blow today what it was concealed to King David and King Solomon in the time of the Old Testament. Therefore, there's a, a brand new song of the renovation of the world by the gospel.There's nothing new beneath the sun, but, but the redemption really was something new. The canticle of the renovation of the world by the gospel, for thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive the book, worthy by his extraordinary innocence, by His total sinlessness, the extraordinary innocence. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive the book and to open its seals because thou art- thou hast been killed and has redeemed us to God in thy blood from every tribe and people and, and tongue and people and nation. Verse 10, "And thou has made us to, to our God a kingdom, a kingdom of grace and glory." Though the Kingdom of God is at hand, go and preach the Kingdom of God is at hand. A kingdom, the Kingdom of God is come amongst you or is come upon you, says our Lord. Standing wherever God is king, the soul in grace, the Catholic Church, Heaven. Three meanings at least for the Kingdom of God. "Thou has made us for God- for our God a kingdom, a kingdom of grace and glory," of which Christ is king, obviously. Christ is the king of this- this is the Kingdom of Christ the King. It's a spiritual kingdom, not an earthly kingdom. "Thou has made us priests of the..." What did we say at the beginning? Uh, we said the, not the ministerial priesthood. What was the o- what was the other one, the right word op- opposed to the ministerial priesthood? Somebody said the... Priesthood of the faithful. Priesthood of the faithful, yes. The priesthood of the laity. In the sense in which the laity of priests, that is to say offerers of internal sacrifices with God upon their hearts. The internal priesthood and the external priesthood. "Thou has made us internal priests." Maybe that's the clearest distinction. Internal priests of the heart as opposed to priests of anointing of the hands. Priests, internal priests. "Thou has made us a kingdom and internal priests," priests of the inner priesthood, "and we shall reign over the earth. We shall dominate the world, the flesh, and the devil." Of course, in Heaven, that's absolutely true. On, on earth, for, for the Catholic Church, it's true. The Catholic Church dominates the world and the flesh and the devil. (footsteps) (door closing)