(tioshift) (footsteps) (door opening) (footsteps) (door closing) (clears throat) Uh, verse nine. Schmid? Yeah, nine? Okay. The se-... we entered the second part of chapter 21, the splendors of the heaven at Jerusalem. (coughs) It's quite dense. The commentary gets quite, quite dense. And then, like, the third part will be chapter 22. First part, first verses of chapter 22 with an epilogue. All right, (smacks lips) verse nine. Um, (clears throat) 21:9, "And there came one of the seven angels who had the vials full of the seven last plagues and spoke with me saying, 'Come and I will show thee the bride, the wife of the Lamb.' And he took me up in spirit to a great and high mountain, and he showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down outta heaven from God, having the glory of God. And the light thereof was like to precious stone as to the jasper stone, even as crystal." An angel of the... What did we say? Uh, vials, did we say, or cups? I can't remember what we said usually. Um, what did we say? Cups? An angel of the cups... And it is referring back to chapter 15, or chapter 16, was it? I forget. Um, (shushes) uh, 16, principally. An angel of the cups evokes the preceding purifications. Why does an angel of the cups reappear at this point? To evoke the preceding purifications by which the church has had to attain her triumphant state, (pauses) uh, th- th- this angel says, uh, "Come and I will show thee the bride, the wife of the Lamb." (coughs) Come equals quit earthly things, rise to heavenly things. (Latin). "And I will show thee the bride, the wife of the Lamb." The Church is engaged to Christ in this life and married to Him in the next, the bride and the wife. Bride in this life, wife in the next. The Church is engaged to Christ in this life, married to Him in the next. Also, (clears throat) besides the Church, it's also the soul. (Clears throat) The soul which weds Christ is both virginal spouse and fruitful wife. The soul which weds Christ is both virginal spouse and fruitful wife. Two things not normally combinable. (Hits microphone) Ten, "And he took me up in spirit to a great and high mountain. He showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God." (coughs) "And he took me up in spirit on a high mountain, a great and high mountain." The heavenly Jerusalem is built on a high mountain, (pauses) unlike Babylon, which is built on rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates. Psalm 136:1, Babylon is built on rivers. That's dash the children against the stones, isn't it? 136:1. (sniffs) (footsteps) Yes, "By the rivers of Babylon, we sat there and wept when we remembered Sion. Blessed he who will take hold of their little children and smash them on the rock." Oof. (coughs) Those are verses which is now optional. Is that right, an- every... you can, uh, put in brackets so that you can sort of leave them out if you feel a bit- I don't know those verses. Yes. Yeah. They're, they're not optional. Uh- They're missing. (laughs) (laughs) Yeah, it's too nasty.Everybody's nice. Apparently, Clint- you know, Clinton is now- he's already offering stacks of money to rebuild Yugoslavia. I mean, uh, is that right? (laughs) Absolutely mad. Absolutely mad. There's something else I've heard (laughs). The reaction of the Serbs (laughs), they're holding huge open-air rock concerts. As, you know, to celebrate the fact that they're getting bombed, they, they, you know, they're all getting out in the open, old and young and everybody, and they're holding rock concerts (instrumental music plays). To keep up their spirits from being bombed, I guess. (laughs) So instead of getting bombed, they get stoned (laughs). (laughs) The world is completely mad. Completely mad. But these, I mean, these liberals, you see these liberals, they think they're nice guys. They think they're sweet guys and say, "You know, we will, we'll, we'll help you to rebuild it all." In the meantime, they go on smashing it to pieces every day. The liberals can't bear you to disagree with them. They're so sacrosanct, yet convinced they're right, but they won't tolerate you disagreeing with them. Ugh. Ugh. It's very easy... You know, the, the, the moment Milošević would, would sort of bow down and agree and that, that, then everything would be sweet and nice. "Oh, you know, we, we never... What was all this bombing about?" "Well, well, well, that was, you know, it's just..." Incredible. Absolutely incredible. (exhales) To understand the liberal mind, whew, don't try too hard, you'll fall into it. Gosh. And yet it's, it's, it's absolutely everywhere. Everywhere. Disneyland. Disneyland war. How does Disneyland make war? Watch. They think they're gonna win this by just their, air, ev- They were, they want apparently the, the, uh, the experts in NATO and the experts said, "You, you can't, you can't win this war by just an air, air bombardment." But that's what they're behaving like. I mean, it's classic, you know, you, sooner or later you, you, you have to send in the soldiers at ground level if you want to conquer, because you can't do it just with bombs. Even in, in, in Iraq, they did the same thing. They flew daily many more planes to bomb Iraq before they finally, uh, attacked with the soldiers. But you, sooner or later you have to. If you want to conquer, you've got to attack with the soldiers, because otherwise they, they, they just go, go, go underground and they wait. And somebody was... I was reading somewhere that, uh, Marshal Tito, before... Well, as... In, in, in the second World War, Tito was, uh, Josip... What was his name? Br- Br- Brnabić, or a name like that, and he called, got to be called Tito, the communist. He... Organizing the re- the Ser- the Yugoslav resistance to the Germans, and the Nazis had a terrible time trying to subdue Yugoslavia, and they never succeeded. They had, they tied up the... The Yugoslavs tied up a huge number of divisions of the, of the German army just in Yugoslavia during the Second World War, because they tried to subdue them. They couldn't. These people are in their own country. It's very mountainous, they lay ambushes, they hide, they know the land. Foreigners come in, they don't know the land. So, um, they were... NATO was warned by people who knew what they were talking about, "Look, you're not gonna win this by an air bombardment alone, and if you... And don't think of sending in, sending in ground troops." Um, what's his name? Uh, MacArthur. General MacArthur told Kennedy to get out of Vietnam. Eisenhower told Kennedy to get out of Vietnam. Kennedy was, was getting out of Vietnam, and of course, he got shot by we know who, and immediately Johnson turned it around and they went back into Vietnam because that's what the we know who wanted. Uh, but you, you, you don't get into a, a ground war which you can't be sure of winning, and, and, and there's... But the drumbeat, the media apparent- the drumbeat in the media, because it all... Day after day after day, these pictures of these poor Albanians, poor Albanians, poor Albanians. What about the poor Serbs for years and years and years? You trust this, there trusts it's been a two-way traffic. Oh, no, the, the media is all pushing one way, pushing, pushing, pushing towards war and towards sending in the ground troops. Wh- When they began bombing, they said, "Oh, we're never gonna send in the ground troops." And now, steadily, "Oh, we may have to send in the ground troops." The people are being prepared little by little, and they're gonna buy it. Now for my (inaudible) big one. Yeah. Around the world. They'll be airborne. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. Used to be a- anti-abortion, the big, big mo- They come up, start coming up the hill there. Air Force Reserves and the Marines. And apparently, in, uh, uh, parts, apparently, then, the s- Kevin Ryan says in the little si- little local school there, there's lots of propaganda about the draft. Somebody wants the Third World War. It's not the Russians at this point in time. It's the West. It's these... It's the criminals that are directing the West, that hold, that control people like Clinton. The, the, and Blair. Blair is as bad as far as I'm concerned. Just as bad as Clinton. His private life is a little cleaner, but he's, he's the same kind of idiot. But, uh, the, the media, ugh, and the stupid people who follow the media. The media can do what they like with the people's minds, it seems. It's very cleverly done. They know how to... The rider knows his horse. You've had the image often in the apocalypse for the, the, the, the leaders to the people is like rider to horse. Only the rider has to know his horse and the rider has to take into consideration the horse, but he pretty much makes the horse. Within the limits of the horse, he makes the horse do what he wants, what he, the rider, wants.So these leaders, they know- they know how to manipulate a crowd. It's incredible. It's- it's- it's terrible to watch, uh, because plenty of people think we're heading... we're definitely heading... little by little, we're going towards the Third World War. And the Third World War is not going to be pleasant at all. Oof. So... but the- they were warned, "You'll never do this by air bombardment alone." But that was the pretense, and so they're still throwing bombing, bombing, bombing. It's incredible. And then they're pretending that they're doing nothing, only... and, u- u- u- by what right? Uh, it's just... who do they think they are? They... it's ridiculous, completely ridiculous. I mean, you had half a million... you had- you had tin pot, little dictators all over the world, in- in Africa. I mean, there was a tremendous slaughter. Any question of- of bombing them? No. No, no, no. They're bombing the Balkans. Somebody wants to start a third world war. (smacks lips) Oof. Oof. It's going to be... there's a terrible punishment coming, terrible punishment, and it's- it's fully deserved, I'm afraid, fully deserved. So, um, having, uh, uh, uh, the... Babylon is built on the rivers. Now, uh, we'll take... uh, that's Sa- Psalm 136:1. "By the rivers of Babylon, we sat- we sat and we wept when we remembered Zion." Um, the mountain, in this case, is Christ's humanity on which the Church is built. The great and high mountain is the humanity of Christ on which the Church is built. (clears throat) Um, "Having the- the... and he showed me the holy city of Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God." Coming down. The glory of humility descending, instead of the pri- the darkness of pride climbing, like Lucifer. The glory of humility descending, not the darkness of pride climbing. Verse 11. "Having the glory of God." (coughs) Glory of humility descending. "And the light thereof was like to a precious stone." The precious stone is Christ. Invincibly firm, and that's why he's like a stone, and infinitely precious by his virtues. Invincibly firm, like a stone, infinitely precious by his virtues. The jasper is a beautiful green stone, eternal springtime. (Latin) You know, these- these bombs smashing children to pieces against the rocks, you know? And then they- they- they leave out... uh, they're pre- there's got to be a pretense in their mind that people aren't getting hurt, you know? It's w- it... and- and they've got it so fixed up in their minds that this is really peace, you know? It's like... it's straight out of George Orwell, 1984. War is peace and there's no declaration of war in Congress. There's no, uh, asking Congress for permission to go to war 'cause this isn't war. This is just, you know... dr- exerting a little pressure on a nasty man. (sighs) Get real. They're completely unreal, these people. Completely unreal. (sighs) And it's obviously not only Clinton. It couldn't possibly be only him. There's a whole clack of them in Washington. There's a whole clack of foreign policy makers and soldiers who go along with it. And they've got the idea that- that, um, uh, the United States can drop bombs anywhere in the world to straighten out... notice they- they drop bombs, bombs, bombs, bombs, bombs, in the hope that they won't have to expose any of their own soldiers. I was saying to you the other day, imagine- imagine the frustration of- of the people on the receiving end, who are getting smashed to pieces and then... and there- there's nobody and nothing they can hit back at. Ah, what a way to make war. I don't know. But sooner or later, they'll have to go in, and then they're gonna... the Serbs are waiting for them, waiting for the ground troops to come in. Then we're gonna start seeing the body bags. Interesting to see what the liberals will do with the body bags. When the... in Vietnam, the liberals didn't want the war.Now, the pe- the same people that, that didn't want war in Vietnam, the very same, want this, this crazy war. The war in Vietnam was sensible against communism. This war has no sense at all, except for globalists. Wha- wha- how can they, they destroy one sensible war and create precisely because in the one case it's a fight against communism, which the liberals don't want to fight communism, but the liberals do want globalism and NATO is smashing Yugoslavia's globalism. So that's why they don't want that war, but they do want this war and yet they pretend that this isn't a war, it's just dropping a lot of bombs. I mean, it... And when the body bags, when they send in those ground troops as they will most likely have to unless somebody's s- unless more sensible counsels prevail some... The, the, the, they're gonna have to send in the ground troops. When they send them in, they start getting killed, I'll bet you the media will keep completely quiet about the body bags coming home. Silence. Oh, they're rats these people. Why are they such a... It's all, it's Christ and the Antichrist. That's what it is. In Vietnam, the communism is the Antichrist and therefore to fight communism is... He that is not... What is it? He that is not against me is, is... He that is not against you is for you. So the kind of the Americas on the side of Christ when as long as it was fighting communism. So the liberals were against. Now, that America is, is, is on the side... The liberals have prevailed and America is on the side of the Antichrist, now the liberals are all for. But it's against your principles to fight war, that's nuts. We're not fighting war. This isn't war. This is just dropping bombs. (laughs) I mean imagine these minds. (sighs) It, it's... Ooh. And Washington and London, oh make no mistake. Apparently Italy is now beginning to complain of acting as an aircraft carrier just to be jumping off place for all the bombs to... Italy apparently there's some complaining going on in Italy. Good for the Italians, say I. Oof. Italy didn't want to have anything to do, not anything much to do... Italy and France didn't want anything have too much to do with the last war and they were quite right. People accused the French of not having opposed the Nazis over... With reason. To oppose the Nazis was to help communism. It was, it was a, it was a fight between two thieves. Let them get on with it. Let the Nazis and the Germans get... The Russians and the Germans get on with it. You know, Hitler wanted to fight the communists. Oof. It was a... But the liberals are crusading for this, this war. Incredible. Incredible. All right. This is a little more, this is a considerably more sane. But Jasper is the beautiful green stone of eternal springtime. The crystal is the clear pure conscience of the elect. The clear pure conscience of the elect. (coughs) Verse 12. "And it had a wall great and high, having twelve gates and in the gates twelve angels and names written thereon which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel." The wall. Hmm. (laughs) Are you all comfortably numb? Now the wall in this case is Christ's humanity shielding the church from her enemies. Um... (clears throat) It's a great wall. Great by nobility, high, great... A wall, it had a wall, great and high. High by the hypostatic union. You may remember the antiphon of, um, of, uh, Advent. (Latin) The city of our strength is Seon. The Savior will be placed in it as a wall and as an, um, an outer wall. Isaiah 26:1. Uh, high by the hypostatic union, the Savior will be placed in it as a wall and as an anti-wall. High by the hypostatic union, Isaiah 26:1. The twelve gates are the apostles. The Twelve Apostles, whose doctrine alone gives entry to the city of God. The, uh... And the gat- and in the gates, twelve angels. In the gates, twelve angels. Twelve angels are special guardians of the apostles and their successors. The twelve angels are special guardians of the apostles and their successors.And in them, the 12 of, uh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh. "And the names are on written- and, and names written thereon which are the names of the 12 tribes of the children of Israel." "Names written thereon which are the names of the 12 tribes of the children of Israel." The 12 Old Testament tribes represent the continuity of the Old Testament with the New Testament. You've got, if you're, if you're putting the Old Testament names on the new Jerusalem, that's the connection between the Old Testament and the New Testament. The continuity between Christ's Old Testament and His New Testament church. The names of the tribes represent the continuity between Christ's Old Testament and New Testament church. They both belong to Him. Verse 13. "On the east, three gates. On the north, three gates. On the south, three gates, and on the west, three gates." Four times three represents the three mysteries of the cross and the redemp- um, the mysteries of the cross, say the redemption, and the Trinity. One moment. (clears throat) (paper rustling) Um, (papers rustling) um... Oh, the three is the Trinity. And the four is the cross. And so, uh, the four sides represents a cross. Uh, if you join the two opposite sides, you draw a cross in the middle of the city. The three is the Holy Trinity. So you've got the Holy Trin- the Trinity of the redemption, the essential mysteries of the Trinity and the redemption. Four times three, the (clears throat) mystery of the, the mysteries of the redemption and of the Trinity. North, south, east, west. Literally, the opening of the church to all men. The church is open to all men, all four points of the compass. Figuratively, the east is the beginning of the world. The men who lived at the beginning of the world. The west is the men who live at the end of the world. Started in the Garden of Eden, finished in the United States of America. (laughs) The west is the end of the world. The south is the Jews who were enlightened by the sunshine of God. The north is the Gentiles who were plunged in darkness. In the figurative sense, the three gates, uh, there are three gates in each of the four walls, means that you can come into the city, into the church, as virgin, spouse, or widow. Those are the three states of life. Virgin, spouse, or widow. The three states of life of all men. All men will be in one of those three states. (clears throat) Um, in the moral sense, so you've got the literal sense, the figurative sense, and the moral sense, the 12 gates by which there is entry into the church are the 12 basics of preaching.... the 12 basics of preaching. Thus, for instance, Albert the Great, by the east, in order to enlighten one's listeners... uh, you have to work out whether they're beginners, people on their way spiritually, or perfect. At what stage are they? Three stages of spiritual life. Beginners... What, what would you say in English? People who are on their way, um, and then pe- people who are in a high state of spiritual perfection. The three northern gates are the three threats hanging over man, death, judgment, and hell. The southern gates are the three promises, forgiveness, grace, glory. The three western gates are the three kinds of sin that you have to do penance for, sins of thought, sins of word, sins of action. That's a lot of detail, but that's Albert the Great. It's just interesting. That's a great church doctor interpreting, giving a moral sense of 12 gates by which to... A moral sense for the 12 gates by which to enter the church. (clears throat) Verse 14. On the west... On the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, on the west three gates. "And the wall of the city had 12 foundations and in them the 12 names of the 12 apostles of the Lamb." 12 foundations are the Old Testament patriarchs. The Old Testament patriarchs. It's on those patriarchs that Christ laid the foundations of His church. Compare Psalm 86:1. Psalm 86:1. (Latin). Their foundations are on the holy mountains. Um, (Latin). The Lord loves the gates of Zion above all the tabernacles of Jacob. Glorious things are said of the City of God. That's Friday. Friday midday. Friday sixth. Um, the o- the 12 Old Testament patriarchs on whom Christ laid the foundations of His church, who are continuous with the 12 New Testament apostles. The 12 names of the 12 apo- apostles of the Lamb. And the apostles are all founded in their term on Christ the Lamb. The Christ was the foundation of the patriarchs of the Old Testament. He's the foundation of the apostles of the New Testament. Ephesians 2:20. "Therefore, you are no longer guests and strangers, but you are citizens of the saints and you belong to the household of God. Built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Himself being the sup- sup- the fundamental cornerstone." Ephesians 2:19-20. In which all the building cons- grows to up into a- a holy temple in God in whom you too are built together to form a dwelling of God in the Spirit. That's Ephesians 2:19-20. Uh, so the 12 foundations are the 12 patriarchs of the Old Testament. In them, the 12 names of the 12 apostles before the City of the Lamb. The patriarchs of the Lamb, the apostles of the Lamb. Verse 15. "And he that spoke with me had a measure of a reed of gold to measure the city and the gates thereof and the wall." Um... In the ci- in the church in the City of God, not all the saints enjoy equal glory. And so, uh, there is a measure which gives the suitable reward to each one.The various saints have various merits- (coughing)... uh, have various rewards measured according to their merits. The golden reed which measure, is the measure of the merits of the saints according to which they are rewarded with their recompense, the golden reed is the teachings of Holy Scripture. He was speak- he was speaking with me, that's this Angel of the Cups, had a, as a measure, a golden reed in order to measure the city and its gates and the wall. The golden reed is the teachings of Holy Scripture. The city is the masses of the people. The, the masses, the, the people, the ordinary people. The gates, 'cause he's got to measure the city and the gates and the wall, the city is the ordinary people, the gates are the prelates, the prelates, the lead- the church leaders. The wall are the, the wall- (clears throat) (coughs) ... the wall is the secular leaders, the princes. You would say today, politicians. Who told the bishops that they must be like a wall? Does anybody remember? Maybe. I can't remember Pius X, but in any case, it was Gregory XVI at the end of Mirari Vos tells the bishops they're gonna have to be like a wall- (coughs) ... to stand up to Liberalism, and I think it's from scripture. I think it's, uh, who says, what prophet is told that he's got to be like a wall? A wall of bronze, I think. Anybody remember? I think Jeremiah, isn't it? Jeremiah, uh, the Lord tells him that he's gotta be like a wall. You'll find it in the concordance. I think so. And who wails in modern time about the wall? John Hoffman? (murmuring) You got it. (laughs) That's right. Yes, you're learning your- (coughs) ... you're learning your modern scriptures. (laughs) Why for Pink Floyd, The Wall? Does anybody know? Somebody must know. Why does he choose the name? It's, uh, it's not without interest. (murmuring) Yeah. It's, it's his vision of the whole of the... It's his vision of m- modern society. All of modern society is built like a wall. All, he- his vision is that modern society is like a wall in which everybody's shut off from everybody else. Everybody is divided. Interesting. It is interesting in its way. It's a vision of a di- of a s- of a dis-society in which everybody is cut off from everybody else, which isn't- it's not really a society- and it's true. It's true. How do people get over this feeling of dis-society in a sports stadium? You've heard me say this, haven't you all? Many of you. Summers? The wave. The wave, yes. It's, it's- (laughs) ... it's absolutely childish, but it at least makes people feel- (coughs) ... that they belong again. That they are, they are together with everybody else. (laughs) They're, they... It's an artificial society because the real society is shut off, because the real society is like a wall. It's just, everybody is divided. So, so, uh, Jeremiah, I think you'd find, uh, that the Lord God in- tells him he's gonna have to be like a wall. It's Jeremiah or Isaiah, I think, but I think it- I think it's Jeremiah. 'Cause Jeremiah says... What does Jeremiah say when the Lord says, "Okay, uh, you've got a vocation. I want you..." That's Jeremiah 1:18. There we are. Okay. Jeremiah 1:18. "Yes, I today have given you to be a, a, um, a fortified city, a column of iron, and a wall of bronze upon the whole earth. To the kings of Judah and its princes, and to the priests, and to the people. And they will make war on you and they will not prevail because I am with you, says the Lord, in order to free you." Magnificent. Absolutely magnificent. 'Cause what did Jeremiah said when the Lord said, "Okay, you've got a vocation"? Holden? Um, what was it he might say ? (laughs) Uh... (laughs) Jeremiah's bowels come into it. (laughs) The, the, the horror of having to be a servant of God makes him have considerable movements of the bowels, yes. (laughs) (laughs) You're quite right, it is. But that's not the exact answer. (laughs) He says, "Ah, ah, ah, Lord, here I am. Send me, Lord." Yeah, there you are. He says, "Ah, ah, ah. Oh, no. Not me, Lord. Ah! I don't want to. Ah!" Uh, it's- it's very interesting. Moses al- who else... Moses also had the same reaction. "Lord, I- I stammer. I can't talk. Uh, uh, uh." "I'll get Aaron to talk in your place." Uh, uh, uh. So, um, uh, the Lord God chooses the most surprising, uh, individuals to carry out his... But what- what's the advantage of choosing somebody like Jeremiah who sounds like that? And I won't say, I won't dare say he was a pussycat, because he most certainly wasn't. Or is it, with the help of the Lord, he certainly wasn't. But by himself, he wasn't inclined to go and strangle all of the Jews and so on, and so on, and so on. What's the advantage of that? What's the advantage of choosing somebody like that? The power of the Lord is more manifested. Yes. It's, uh, th- that, that's one of the... It- it's going to be the Go- it's going to be God that does it. Th- because it's absolutely not in Jeremiah himself to per- to perform such a vocation. He hasn't got it in him to do anything like that. Besides, what's another advantage?Uh, yeah, eventually, with a bit of pummeling and persuading, he sort of, uh, falls in line but, but... Yes. I mean, there are some people that would just love to get up there and strangle the whole of the Jews, you know, and shoot them and machine gun them and bury them and so on and so on. You know, I mean, uh, some people ha- some people have got that kind of temperament. But if you put somebody like that onto it, what would, what would be liable to happen? He'd be capable of anything. It'd be too human. It'd be altogether too human. H- his own personality, just loving getting there and, you know, m- machine-gunning all the Jews, I mean, it's, it's very tempting to a lot of people. And, uh, but it would be too human. It... Whereas if Jeremiah is sent to do it, who doesn't want to do it at all, it's gonna be purely God in action. And if you had been able to meet Jeremiah, if you met, uh, if you'd seen and met Jeremiah, you know, you'd, you'd have seen that it wasn't him. It wasn't him personally. Just a little like Archbishop Lefebvre. I mean, uh, he, he, he wasn't somebody who loved tearing up the enemy or tearing the enemy in pieces. Uh, n- he wasn't at all. He was, he was strong, but he was, uh, he was much more inclined to, uh, make friends with all his colleagues and s- with his fellow bishops. He was much more inclined to be friends with them than to... He had no inclination, personal inclination, to go to war and tear them all to pieces. Not at all. That's why if he stood up to them, it was clearly not his own doing. It wasn't his own will or personality. It was God's doing. Same with Jeremiah. If the Lord God chooses somebody who says, "Oh, no, no, not legal," then it's not G- it's not Jeremiah's doing. It's not his personality that just enjoys, uh, being cussed and, uh, making himself unpopular. Some people do enjoy that. I don't know why. But, um, but not Jeremiah, and that proves, that's gonna prove that it is God's doing. So, and that's why... That's one reason why God mysteriously chooses who he does choose, but it is mysterious always. It's still... So, the golden reed is the teachings of Holy Scripture. The city is the masses, the gates are the prelates, and the wall is the princes. Uh, the wall, the, the, the secular authorities. Th- the gates is where the action is, where people come in and go out, but the wall... The gates depend upon the wall. If you haven't got a wall, there's going to be no gate. The gate is gonna have no meaning. If there's no wall, people just walk in and out of the city how they like, anywhere, and there's n- nobody will bother going through the gate if somebody's... But if, if, if there's a wall, then the, have to, people have to deal with the gates. If you've got the secular authorities with the church, then people have to deal with the church. Otherwise, they just, they just go around the church, they couldn't care less. So it's an interesting comparison. Somebody's done some thinking to come up with the gates are the prelates and the wall are the princes, the wall is the princes. I don't know who, but it's some of these, um, medieval commentators, undoubtedly. All right, uh, verse eight- uh, verse 16. "And the city lieth in a four square, and the length thereof is as great as the breadth, and he measured the city with the golden reed for 12,000 furlongs, and the length and the height and the breadth thereof are equal." Um, what kind of artist would have been very good to do this? Uh, Cubists. Why? (inaudible) You got it. Cubists. Yeah, that's it. The Cubists. Who was the other famous Cubist painter? Does anybody know? Time of Picasso. Samuel? No, no, he wasn't a Cubist. No. The other one was a man called Braque, Georges Braque, B-R-A-Q-U-U-E. Picasso went through many different styles and, uh, Cubism was one style he went through early in his, relatively early in his career, around, uh, 1908, around that kind of time, before the First World War. Picasso was absolutely brilliant, an absolutely brilliant, uh, artist. Came from, um, the area of Barcelona, Spanish. But there's nothing there, it's empty, horribly empty. Brilliant technique, empty soul. You can fi- you'll find that. He's got nothing to say, but, but, but, but he's brilliant at saying it. So, um, then the city, uh, the, um... The four square is, uh, four, represent the four cardinal virtues. Four squares, the four cardinal virtues (instrumental music plays) And its length is as great as its breadth. "As great as" means that these four virtues are cultivated in a balanced way. They're not... The, the four virtues are in balance. Oh, we'll continue next week.