Who's missing? Shirah, ... (background noise) Moats. Jenkins has backed out. Yeah. He's migrated. (laughs) He wants to read in peace. (laughs) Correct? I don't know. (laughs) You too. (laughs) Uh, who else is missing? Oh, somebody over here. Somebody over here. Yeah. I'm right here. Patrick, yes. Somebody else? Just, all right. All right, uh, chapter 15, 16, verse... how far were we? Verse 19. Uh, yes, the lightning, the voices, the thunder, and the purr- and the earthquake. Verse 19, "And uh, the great city was split into third, three parts." (coughs) "And the cities of the Gentiles fell and Babylon the Great came into the mind before God to-" (coughs) "... give to it the chalice of the wine of the indignation of His wrath." That's four genitives one after another. (Vini indignationis irae ejus). "And every, if, island fled and the mountains were not to be found. And a great hail like a talent came down from heaven upon men and they blasphemed God, uh, and men blasphemed God on account of the hail, the plague of hail, because it was very vehemently great." The city, verse 19, is divided into just men, repentant sinners and obstinate sinners. (smacks lips) Mankind is divided into just men, s- repentant sinners and obstinate sinners. And the cities of the Gentiles felt all human institutions. The cities of the Gentiles are all human institutions. The cities are the nations, all human institutions. The verse 20, "And every island fled and the mountains were not to be found." We, we remember that we're talking about the general judgment, the end of the world in the general judgment. Every island fled means men resisting the all-around corruption escaped punishment. Those men were like islands amidst the sea of corruption. Those who don't li- go under, the islands that do not go under, the men who do not go under in the all-around corruption escape punishment, escaped the punishment. And the mountains were not to be found. The mountains are the saints towering in virtue like a mountain are not engulfed in the disaster. The saints towering in virtue are not engulfed in the disaster. And hail great as a talent descended from heaven upon men. Uh, hail is punishment with hailstones tailor-made for each sin. The hail is a punishment with hailstones tailor-made for each sin. A divine punishment with hailstones custom-built for each sin. And that is a punishment as vehement as the pains of hell. And men blasphemed. I've often said, you must have heard me often say about the present situation, men are so corrupt today that if God, quote unquote, dares to punish them, they're going to shake their fists in his nose and they're going to say, "Who do you think you are to be punishing me? How dare you? Who do you take yourself to be, almighty God?" That's how they're gonna... That's how people are going to react. They are so filled with their own rights, with human dignity, with uh, the glory of mankind, with the delin- with, with the delinquency of God. "God's got it all wrong. We human beings have done our best to set it right. And now you, God, are stepping in to dare to say that we've got it wrong? And you're daring to re-establish your wrongful reign?" That's how people are going to react. That's how people are going to react.Apparently, all the ministers of religion that have tried to go to see Clinton to get him to admit that he's done something wrong (mouth farts), he's done nothing wrong. Nobody can persuade him any differently. The man is absolutely twisted. And of course, he's not the worst. He's basically only... He's- he's basically only a puppet. The real delinquents are the ones pulling the wires behind the scenes, but they're hidden from the views of the people because otherwise the people would realize that it's not a democracy at all. The people at the moment are given the illusion that they are in a democracy, therefore they are sovereign. They're not sovereign at all. They're simply led by the nose by hidden masters instead of being led out in the open by open masters. But that's- that's the punishment for turning away from God. The, uh, protocols say, uh, "We're going to inject liberalism into the bloodstream of the Gentile nations until they don't know what they're doing, until they don't know where to turn, until they go crazy. We objec- injected liberalism into their bloodstream and they are now going crazy. And when they're crazy enough, when the cr- when the craziness is complete, we are going to take over. They will come to us to beg us to take over. And after we have made a complete monkey and complete idiot of their governments and of their governors..." Exactly what's happened now, exactly what's happened just in Washington with all of this idiocy, criminal idiocy. They've made a complete monkey... The Gentiles have made a complete monkey of themselves. "Then our government will take over, and in our government there's going to be no arguing and no mistakes, and nobody will be allowed to raise a little finger of protest. That's... Our government's going to be completely different. But you'll see in the media, when the time comes, you'll see in the media, the media will have everybody's minds so inside out and back to front that everybody will think it's still... This is better than democracy." Yeah, just wait and see. Just wait and see. People are so stupid and so blind when they turn away from God. That's it. God says, "That's the way you wanted it? That's the way you'll have it. That'll... What you wanted will be your punishment. You chose it, that's what you got." How many of you have read The Protocols of the Sages- the Elders of Sion? Not nearly enough of you. Uh, you should all, you ought all to read The Protocols of the Elders of Sion because it's the blueprint for the 20th century. It's the way the 20th century works. Um, "We're going to... Um, we're going to take over their clergy. We will make a- we'll make a monkey of their church and of their clergymen. We will fill the people with sports and with spectacles so that they can't think of anything else. We will destroy their politics. We will make idiots of their politicians." And what else? Uh, let's see. Exactly what you see happening today. Uh, in several countries now, or in several countries, the- to... Simply to own a copy of The Protocols has been a capital offense. You could have your head cut off or your- you could get electrocuted or whatever it was if you owned a copy of The Protocols. But of course, The Protocols is bogus. But if you own a copy... Uh, so it was in communist Russia. So it's- so it's been elsewhere. But The Protocols is serious. Dead serious. But of course, we-know-who immediately stirred up an enormous controversy about it, just in typical style, claiming it's a forgery. And of course, all the media backed the idea that it's a forgery. But, um, Henry Ford, who's an American, had his head screwed on in many ways, he simply said, "I don't know whether it's a forgery. All I know is that it's exactly what's happening all around us." Which is a very common sense answer. But of course, all the media constantly screamed that it's a forgery. Everybody assumes it's a forgery. So of course, it's... That way they try to discredit it. But it's- it's exactly what's happened ever since. Whew. The Zionists were holding a meeting in Basel in Switzerland in, I think, 1897, or soon- a little before that. And I think the Russian secret police got wind of it, because the Jews had the knifing for Russia, because Russia was one of the cr-... It was still a semi-Christian autocracy. There was a- one- a single leader, the Czar, and it was still- he governed in the name of Orthodox. It still was a, to some extent, Christian country, and the Russians had the number of the Jews. Uh, therefore, the Jews were determined to destroy Russia, and therefore the- the Russian secret- the Czar's secret police was still defending themselves against the Jews. I think if I... The- the story is that they... While these Red Sea pedestrians were all gathered in this hotel room, somebody who was as smart as they are cried out, "Fire! Fire!" So all of this vermin immediately began scuttling out of the room as fast as they could because they were all scared of their skins, and they left behind papers on their desks. So then somebody went in and picked up the papers. And that's, I think, how originally... That's one story of how originally they got hold of the papers of the- The Protocols. That's one story.... let him know that's part of the (whispers) technology. Uh, n- the document stands a- stands by itself. It, it, it seems to take the form of a speech. It's some, it's some Zionist explaining to the others, a very, very limited and very secret group, the game plan, the blueprint for how we're going to take control from the dumb (Hebrew). And, uh, it's a brilliant plan. It's satanic. It's satanic in its brilliance, 'cause it, it just knows human nature inside out. And it knows the faults and the weaknesses of the Gentiles. And, um, it, and it says how we are going to move in with our messiah. We are... we will be the messiah, and we will save the world. We will dominate the world and we will save the world. And all the nations will bow down in front of us, and will adore us, and will be thankful to us. And not one... not... nobody will be allowed to raise a finger against us. Our government will be infallible. We will not make any of the mistakes that the (Hebrew) are always making. And we are the ones that are responsible for having made such a monkey of the (Hebrew)'s governments. I mean, can you imagine that this spectacle that there's been in Washington for the last few months is exactly The Protocols? Exactly. Everybody's discredited. The senators are discredited, the president is discredited, party politics are discredited, the media are discredited. The whole thing is completely degraded and degrading. And nobody can have anything except disgust for the whole shooting match. A plague on all your houses. It's just... that's it. And they, they, they've done the same to... they're doing and done... They, they're... a few more times and the American public will be ripe for le-... because the American public believe in their Congress. They believe in their Senate. They believe in their Constitution. They believe in their wonderful Washington. "Well," says the Lord God, "you believed in a constitution without me, you believed in a government without me, you believed in your senators without me. Look where it gets you." That's to say that the Lord God, the Lord God is allowing the Red Sea Pedestrians to do all this. You know, the Lord God doesn't say... It's so foolish to say He knows what He's doing, but, uh, it's a human way of speaking. He knows even more what He's doing than, than the Red Sea Pedestrians know what they're doing, because they're, they're simply tools of the L- of the Lord God. They don't know it, and if they thought... th- that's the last thing they'd want to be if they thought about it, but, uh, the last thing we want to do is further the cause o- of, of God. But there you are. Um, where is that piece of paper? Uh... yeah. Gain. Um, Jenkins, you know. (laughs) Um, this time it's behind the desk. Uh, the bookstore- The green one? ... the bookshelf behind the desk. No. It's a black binder, um, in the middle of the bottom shelf behind the desk. Okay? Facing that way. No, it's a black binder with my notes in it, and my... It, it props up the shelf so you have to lift the shelf to get it out. (laughs) Um, it's (Hebrew), a, a, a kind of two or three page summary of some of the most, uh, telling extracts from The Protocols. I think I have it in that binder. I'm not sure. But you all ought to know The Protocols because it's absolutely our world, and it's... I've said to you so many, many, many, many times, um, do you know... and it's not in order that we all become raving anti-Semites or (whispers) will you, though. But, uh, it's so that you know, so that you f-... once and for all give up this idea that everybody's sweet, everybody's nice, there aren't any villains, nobody's plotting, plotting or planning the, the criminal idiocy that's going on today. It's well-plotted and well-planned and well-designed. And only liberals can think that it's by accident or it's not really as bad as it looks, or just give us a little more enlightenment and progress and, you know, and it'll all sort itself out. So and so and so, so, so... no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No. And the only people that can understand the agents of the Antichrist are people who understand Christ, because if you don't take Christ seriously, you can't take the Antichrist seriously. If you don't take the Antichrist seriously, you can't understand what's going on, because these people are agents of the Antichrist. They know what they're doing, and they want to get rid of the ab-... absolute... every last trace of Christ. It's Satan. It's simply Satan. Uh, yes, that's it. It may or may not be in here. If it's... uh, I may be lucky. It may be here, I can't remember. Thanks. (clears throat) Um, I can't remember where I keep it. It may not be here. It's just a one or two page summary. I'm afraid it's not here in which case I don't know where it is. I'll have to find it for tomorrow. I have to look for it tomorrow. Is there, uh, other copies in the bookstore of The Protocols? There are copies, yeah. Buy it bef-... buy it while you still can because, um- (laughs) ... as soon as they come to power, it will be forbidden, absolutely forbidden. No, I'm, I don't know where it is. It's not in here. All right. I'll, I'll look for it for tomorrow. All right. Back to the Apocalypse. The Synagogue of Satan, uh, he spoke about it in ch-... the, uh, The Book of the Apocalypse spoke about it in chapter two. Um, uh-The Synagogue of Sta- Satan is a phrase. Um, the chapter two, verse nine. "You are- thou art blasphemed by those who call themselves Jews and are not, but are the Synagogue of Satan." That's obviously racial Jews, uh, but they're not children of Abraham. They're not true, they're not spiritual children of Abraham. They're fleshly children of Abraham, but not spiritual children of Abraham. "Fear nothing of those, of what- whatever you're about to suffer. Behold, the d- devil is about to send some- someone from a- amongst you to prison in order for you to be tried, and you will have tribulation for 10 days. Be faithful even to death. I will give you the crown of life." So, uh, turn back to the beginning of ch- chapter 16, and we go through... Those are, we've seen all seven vials, so this is seven all in one chapter. The seven, uh, seals were spread over three or four chapters, the seven trumpets over three or four chapters, but the seven vials were all in one, are all in this one chapter. Right. The seven cups, there is a moral sense of the same chapter. It's the punishment of the seven capital sins. The moral sense of chapter 16 is the punishment of the seven capital sins. Who remembers the, uh, acronym to, uh, for the seven capital sins? SEALGAP. SEALGAP, sloth, envy, avarice, lust, greed, anger, pride. Otherwise, I couldn't remember. Don't know about you, but once I've got an acronym, I can get it. So it seals the gap of my memory. How's that? Pretty good, yeah? (laughs) I didn't think of SEALGAP. One of you thought of it. I don't know who it was, but it's good. All right. Uh, the first, uh, verse one, we start again. "And I heard a great voice from the temple calling out to the seven angels, 'Go pour out the seven vials of the wrath of God upon the Earth.'" And then verse two, um, "The preachers are angels as having to guard souls against the evils that threaten them." So the angels here are preachers who have to warn, go and tell the preachers to warn people against the seven vices. Uh, the first vice, th- w- and the first w- went away and poured out his vial upon the Earth, and there was a- a savage wound and a terrible wound upon men who had the character of the beast and upon those who adored his image. The first vice is greed. The Earth, he poured out his vial upon the Earth. The Earth represents men insatiably greedy... with the character of beasts... adorning their belly. Greed. Men who have the character of beasts adoring their belly. The wound is hunger inf- the hunger inflicted in hell. The wound is hunger inflicted in hell. The second, uh, verse three, the second angel poured out his vial... uh, upon the sea and there was blood as of a dead man, and every living soul died in the sea. The second vice is lust, which is a tumultuous bitter sea, a tumultuous salt sea. The second vice, chapter three, on which the preacher pours out his preaching, is lust. A tumultuous bitter sea. Blood as of a dead man... is the quasi-incurable wound of lust. Uh... Proverbs 23:27. "For a harlot is a deep ditch and a strange woman is a narrow pit." Um, "My son, give me thy heart and let thine eyes keep my ways for a harlot is a deep ditch and a strange woman is a narrow pit."Um... uh, verse four. "And the fourth, the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and upon the fountain heads, and there came blood. And I heard an angel of the waters saying, 'Thou art just, oh Lord, who art and who wast holy, who has judged thus because they have poured out the blood of the saints and the prophets and, uh, thou hast given them blood to drink for they are worthy.' And I heard another from the altar saying, 'Even thus, Lord God Almighty, true and just are their judgments.'" Uh, verse four. The third capital sin dealt with here is anger. These springs... are anger brooding, rivers are the anger exploding. Anger brews until it explodes, the fountain head turns into a river. Anger. The, uh... angel of the waters in verse five and then the angel... uh, another angel, verse seven, are the Old Testament and the New Testament which both tell that anger is punished. Anger is punishable, it is a vice. The Old Testament and the New Testament both tell that anger is a punishable vice. Obviously, there's such a thing as righteous anger if it's under the control of reason and it's in the right time and the right place, like our Lord angry with these sellers in the temple. But, uh... anger blackens the soul, like bitterness. It... churns around like a poison and, uh... turns into hatred. The archbishop said that when... The archbishop used to say that in a way- his experience in Africa, before Christianity would reach, before the Catholic Church would reach a village, uh, he says, "Don't have any idea about the... Don't have any, uh, notion of the noble savage and the wonderful, sweet Africans before the Catholic faith reached them." He says, "They're full of sins." And he didn't mention the most obvious sin that you'd think of, but he mentioned the sin of anger and hatred. Or everybody, he said, in those villages hated somebody. It was full of, uh, dissension and, uh, bitterness and anger and hatred. That's it. It was true. I remember, uh, in the lives of the saints, you see how many of those Italian saints, espe- Italian saints used to... are credited in their hagiographies for having appeased dissension, having quietened down arguments. The anger and hatred is not so obvious today. Why not? Why is the anger and hatred... How do you spell love? L-U-V, L-U-V... L-U-V, yeah. It's... Th- that's it. Everybody... Yeah, I think that's right. The anger is not so obvious because everybody, everybody is love, love, love. L-U-V, L-U-V, L-U-V. But anybody? Just one shake of the test tube and all of that L-U-V, L-U-V, L-U-V is all ready to turn into... Holden? It is. Examples anybody? (Inaudible). Yes. That is to say? Everyone loves one another. <inaudible. Yeah. Not (inaudible). Yes. That's an example. The, the, the l- this love is false. This... It's a false charity. And it's all ready to turn into, into hatred. Uh... You see it... Oh. But then, you know, you just sort of smooth down its feathers again and you say one or two nice cooing things, and it turns back into love, love, love. But love, love, love and a pretty nasty hatred a- are like absolutely fl- uh, heads and tails. The one will flip straight into the other and back again. Any other examples, anybody? Just, uh, (inaudible). Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um... Could you say (inaudible)? Yes. Yes. The love, love, love society has produced a very bitter youth, it's true. Absolutely true. The youth are very bitter. Deep down bitter. It comes through in the r- in their music. Listen to rock. Not to listen... Not for the delight. (laughs) But for the instruction, as Dr. White would say. It's very instructive listening to rock. I think so, anyway. Um... So, uh, yes. That's an example. Jenkins, you had an example? (Inaudible). Yes. That's another perfect example. Yes.Yep. And then, of course, abortion, uh, the liberals' hands drip with blood. It's all love, love, love, love, love, but then on Su- Saturday morning, my little sweet thing will go down to the abattoir with my encouragement, if not with my orders, in order to slaughter the little thing inside her womb. Uh, it's a very ugly thing, love, love, love. Uh, it's, it's very false. And you'll see, uh, uh, and if the, if the food trucks, if the, if the welfare stamps, if the food no longer arrives in, in today's big cities, how is the anger of the, after the ro- uh, well, the Rodney King caused riots, didn't he? Uh, how was that quietened down? Tons and tons of federal aid. There you are. Tons of federal aid. Solve the problem with money. They, they, they... In fact, f- for the Blacks, it's obviously well worth having a riot, because you've got everything built up new afterwards. (laughs) For nothing. The government will come and build it all up again for nothing. It's just like Jewish lightning. You could call it Black lightning. (laughs) Jenkins? (Inaudible). Yes. (inaudible). Yes. Uh, you would never have had the Blacks on the plantations b- behaving like that, quite like that. They could go... I'm sure the Blacks on the plantations occasionally went mad, I'm not an expert in this either, but not, not mad like in, in the big cities in the North, because they were never treated down South on the plantations like they're treated in the, in the, by the liberals in the North. The liberals in the North, of course, think that they love, love, love the Blacks. But, you know, it's bogus. It's completely bogus. Whereas the plantation owner, who did care for his slaves... The slaves knew that the plantation owner was a human being and they, and the plantation knew that the slaves were human beings. It was actually a more humane system than the liberalism in the North, believe it or not. That comes out in a fa- very famous American film, anybody? Which all of you ought to watch. It's a film you ought to watch. Birth of a Nation by D.W. Griffith. Birth of a Nation. It's a silent movie, and it's all about, uh, the, uh, s- a, uh, a Northern boy and girl and a Southern girl and boy, um, before the Civil War. I think they know one another. And then the war breaks out, and then they all have to fight. But then after the war, I think they get together again, and the film is how, uh, the war was caused by liberalism. Uh, it was won by the liberals with disastrous consequences in the South, as a just reaction to which you had the... stop your innocent young ears, Ku Klux Klan. Oh. That tells you how interesting the film is. Imagine a film praising the Ku Klux Klan as a just self-defense against the carpetbaggers, the out of control Blacks, and worse, the carpetbagging scum from the North who came down to exploit the situation in the South. Tooh. Not that the South are angels, please. Not that the Ku Klux Klan are angels, please. All of these poor Protestants fighting one another, killing one another, blinding one another, with no idea where the real answer is. Just one set of mad Protestants against another, except one is slightly less mad than the other. The liberal Protestants are even worse than the non-liberal Protestants. But the whole thing, Protestantism against liberalism, it's, it's, it... they've got no idea. But still, it's, uh... D.W. Griffith was a, was an honorable man, and has made, it's an honorable film. And the, the solution is that after the war, North and South get together again, and we give birth to... (singing) The United States of America. That's the solution. (laughs) And the Northern boy marries the Southern girl and the Southern boy marries the Northern girl, and the United States lives happily ever after. (laughs) Uh-huh. That's it. That's it. That's the solution if you haven't got a real grasp on the problem. And of course, kind of, it, it, it was the solution that all these dear Protestants... It was the best that all of the dear Protestants could manage, and it created this Protestant nation. The, the Civil War from 1861 to 1865 forged the modern United States of America. No question about it. It's interesting to read Joe Sobran on the question on Abraham Lincoln. Joe Sobran is no admirer of Abraham Lincoln. Abraham Lincoln made federal government take a huge step forward. He's not such a hero as the liberals make out. So again, he's solving problems... It's, it's, it's always that story. He's solving... If, if that presents a problem, you don't solve the problem by going upwards. You go forwards downwards again, and you just keep on going downwards. You refuse to go back towards the Catholic faith. Now that, that answer is out. Go on that. And yet, it's the only possible answer. How does the Catholic Church deal with slavery? Does it start a revolution ? What does it do? What does it tell the slave owners and what does it tell the slaves? It's in scripture, we've seen it. We've seen it in the Civil War.Yes? That the slaves have to obey the... they're obeying God. That's right. The slaves obey as though they're obeying God. And the slave owners remember you're going to go in front of a judgment seat where there's going to be no difference between slave and slavers, except that you have much more respon-... much more to answer for. And you will be judged without any, uh, privileges at all. So the Catholic Church teaches the slave owners to behave decently, and it teaches the slaves to behave decently. And then the- the- the slavery steadily loses its bite. It- it loses its bite and it- it- it eventually sort of dissolves. It... And that's how slavery was got... that's how Catholicism gets rid of slavery. But not by starting up a revolution. It's not by building institutions or by smashing institutions. It's by changing hearts. And institutions are simply the product of hearts. If you've got good hearts... Good hearts, bad institutions, no real problem. Good institutions, bad hearts, you've got a problem. I mean, look what's happening with the American constitution. I mean, the American Constitution is, you know, there are many worse. There are cer- surely many, many worse. But look what a monkey this- this character in the White House has now made of it. And his... all his rats, his surrounding rats, and his media on all of it, they just completely destroyed justice. They made a complete monkey of justice and truth. Justice, truth, and decency, completely ridiculed. Incredible. But that's because of what's going on in the hearts. What will be the Catholic Church's answer to Mr. William Jefferson Clinton? (laughs) Woof. I won't answer that question. (laughs) Uh, but if there... it would be if he could convert them. I mean, if he... He's very smart. He's very smart. He's a real politician. If he converted and used all of his gifts for the good of the nation, he- he might do something. He might really do something. They- they- these- these villains can convert. It doesn't often happen, alas, because that's the way human nature is, but they can convert. That's what one has to pray for. Well, then anger. Brooding is the fountainheads, exploding is the rivers, and the angle... the angels in both Old Testament and New Testament tell that anger is a sin that can be punished. I was saying that today's love, love, love has got anger as the very swift flip- flip side. You see the- the people coming into the stores and if they don't get what they want and they don't get it yesterday, they turn angry. A doctor I've told you quoted s- many times, a doctor from Nebraska who once told me that- that his patients come in the door and they want health, beauty, and youth, and they want it yesterday, and they... uh, he's no good if he can't deliver. And it's absurd, but that's the expectation. And that... And if the expectation isn't fulfilled, then it's anger. Shoo. So, all right, uh, verse 8. Um, what a seal gap. S-A-L-G-A-P. Pride. Okay. Vanity. Vanity or pride. Uh, verse 8, vanity or pride. Uh, uh, the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun. The sun is me, the ego. The sun is me. The heat... And there was... it was given to afflict- afflict men with great heat and fire. The heat is ambition when things go well for pride, and the fire is anger when things go badly. Verse 9, pride refuses all penance. Just like Clinton. "I haven't done anything wrong." Pride refuses all penance. Um, verse 12... verse 10 rather, uh, envy. And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast, and there was... a- a dark kingdom came about and they chewed their tongues for pain, and they blasphemed the God of heaven for their pain and their wounds, and they did not do penance from their works. Verse 10, envy. Subjecting men to the rule of the devil. Envy subjects men to the rule of the devil. It makes a dark kingdom, in other words. They eat their tongues, it's slander and calumny. Slander and calumny spoken by the envious. And, again, that they do no penance means it's difficult to correct. It's difficult to correct. verse 12, the sixth angel poured out his vial upon that great river, the Euphrates- Euphrates, and dried up its water in order that a way be prepared for the kings from the rising of the sun."And I saw from the mouth of the dragon, from the mouth of the beast, and from the mouth of the pseudo-prophet three unclean spirits in the- a manner of frogs." (paper rustles) "For because they are spirits of the devil's working signs and proceeding to the kings of all of the earth, to collect them together for war, uh, against the great day of the Almighty Lord." "And behold, I come like a thief. Blessed is he who is watching and keeps his clothes clean, lest he walk naked and they see his disgrace." "And he will gather them together in a place which is called in Hebrew, Armageddon." Avarice. Avarice. The Euphrates (paper rustles) leaves behind... As the Euphrates leaves behind mud, so avarice leaves behind only sin. Uh, to dry up... He dried up the Water of Euphrates... He poured out his vial upon the great river of Euphrates and dried up its water. Dried up its water is to demonstrate the fleetingness of temporal goods. Demonstrate the fleetingness of temporal goods. The passingness, the fact that they pass, that they're very, very brief duration. They do not last. The kings are the preachers of truth. The kings of verse 14 are the preachers of truth. And the Son is Christ. The dragon, the beast, and the pseudo-prophet, drying up the worldly goods in order to make way for the preachers of truth and for Christ. The dragon and the, uh... And from the mouth of the dragon and from the mouth of the beast and from the mouth of the prophets, I saw three spirits, three unclean spirits come out in the manner of frogs. Uh, dr- the dragon is concupiscence of the eyes. The beast is the pride of life. And the pseudo-prophet is concupiscence of the flesh. (coughs) And then finally, the seventh vial of verse 17 is sloth (beeping), which is like drifting... The slothful are like drifting air. Achieving nothing, going nowhere, doing nothing. Slothful men are like the drifting air. "And the seventh angel poured out his vial upon the air." The slothful are like drifting air. We will pick up again tomorrow, and I will look for the text on the protocols.