(static) (click) (static) Keep my word. Yeah. Here you are. It's your prize. Um... Chapter 2, verse... verse, anybody? Nine. Nine. Okay. "I know thy tribulation by poverty, but thou art rich and thou art blasphemed." Um, this is the Ch- Church of Sardis, the, uh, church under persecution, corresponding to the second age of the Church, the Age of Martyrs from 70 to when was the date of the Battle of the Milvian Bridge at which Constantine defeated his em- enemies. 300? As early as 311? 313. 313? 313. 13, I would've thought, yes, okay. 33... well, let's just say for 313. Um, maybe we can compromise on 312? (laughs) Uh, I think 313. Uh, 70 to 313, the second age of the Church, the Age of the Martyrs. Uh, "I know thy tribulation and thy poverty." Sorry, it's the, uh, Church of Smyrna, not the Church of Sardis. I beg your pardon. It's the Church of Smyrna. Uh, "Therefore, there are no reproaches." This is because you don't criticize somebody who's having a hard time. The principle of in the exercises, if you've got to retreat because it's being particularly hard done over by the devil, then you, you would give an encouragement obviously. Uh, "Poverty as the world goes, but rich in spiritual goods," obviously. "I know thy tribulation and thy poverty." That's poverty as the world judges. "But thou art rich in spiritual goods." And, "Thou are blasphemed by those who call themselves Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan." Synagogue means assembly. Bringing together. Leading together, like a pedagogue is a leader of children. Synagogue, assembly of Satan. Compare John 8:39-44. I think that's exactly how far we've got, the terrible words of our Lord to the Jews who pretend to be the children of Abraham, the children of Moses, and, and are spiritually nothing of the kind. "Fear nothing of those, fear nothing of all thou art about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to send some of you to prison in order for you to be put to the trial, and you will have tribulation for 10 days." Ten days means bu- brief duration. A time of brief duration. Why 10? It's the time of, of this life when man is under the yoke of the Ten Commandments. It's the time of this life when man is under the yoke of the Ten Commandments. So 10 days means just a brief time, because this life is brief. The vita brevis, this life is brief. You youngsters don't know how brief it is. You will learn. If you grow old enough, you will learn. If you don't grow old enough, you will have proved how brief it is. (laughs) If you do grow old enough, you will learn how brief it is. Uh, the time of man's life under the yoke of the Ten Commandments. Um, "And you will have tribulation for 10 days. Be, be, be fi- faithful even unto death, and I will give you the crown of life." The crown of life, that is the possession of God in eternal bliss. Crown of life is the possession of God in eternal bliss. (coughs) "He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches." Again, each message to a single church is really for all seven churches. It's really for the whole Church, for the, for all Christians. It's a treatise of the second spiritual life, chapters 2 and 3. "He that will have conquered..." The future perfect. . He who shall have conquered, "will not be harmed by the second death." The second death is eternal damnation. Second death... The first death is when body and soul separate. The second death is when the soul is flung into eternal damnation. The third church, the Church of Pergamum. It's the letter to a church infested with idolatry-... and threatened by multiple heresies... Pergamos... corresponds to the gift of science... to keep true doctrine... the gift of science to keep true doctrine... by the Word of God... which is a two-edged sword. Verse, verse 12. A two-edged sword. Compare Apocalypse 1, verse 16, Hebrews 4, verse 12. Two-edged, you may remember, it said, commentary said, which is drawn from the co- this commentary is a, it's a synthesis of classic authors. It's, it's the Church Fathers and the medie- the medieval commentators. Uh, it says somewhere who it's all drawn from, the tradition of the Church Fathers. Um, Albert the Great, Richard of Saint Victor, Rupert of Deutz, Winfrid Strabon, Thomas of England, and basically Dennis the Carthusian. Those, that's the sources, those are the sources of this . The gift of science to keep the doctrine by the Word of God which is like a two-edged sword. Chapter 1, verse 16, Hebrews 4, verse 12, because it cuts very differently for the good and for the bad. Sharp, a sharp, two-edged sword. A sharp two-edged sword. The third ch- letter corresponds to the age of doctors, the Age of the... Third age of the Church was the age of doctors, uh, 313 to about 500. That age of, that history, that age of the history of the Church is the age of Saint Chrys- John Chrysostom, Saint Augustine, Saint Jerome, Saint Chrysostom, Saint Basil, Saint Gregory of Nyssa, Saint Gregory of Nazianzus, Athanasius. Who else have I left out? I mentioned Jerome. Augustine, of course. Ambrose, yes. All of those doctors fall in that period. And the reason is because as the Church came out of persecution, so the devil had to change tactics, and instead of throwing physical lions at the church, he threw intellectual lions, in other words, persecution by heresy. Instead of persecution by blood, persecution by heresy. Therefore, instead of the answer by martyrs, the answer by doctors. So the third age of the church, 315 to 500, is the age of doctors. It corresponds to the Church of Pergamos. "I know where thou dwellest." So firstly, of course, the compliments, the nice things, capitatio benevolentiae, and then when you've got him, you know, nicely by his tie, then you slam him with the other hand. So then come, after the nice things you say, come the nasty things. So firstly, the nice things. "I know where thou dwellest, where the seat of Satan is, and thou holdest fast my name and hast not denied my faith, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth." But, verse 14. So verse 13 is the nice things. In a city filled with pagan temples, emperor worship, and false cults... Pergamos was a particular, this is the character of the ancient city of Pergamos. In a city filled with pagan temples, emperor worship, and false cults, it is especially praiseworthy to have kept the faith. It's especially praiseworthy to have kept the faith. "I know where thou dwellest." I know what hard time you are keeping the faith in the place where you live. It's a seat of Satan. "And thou hold- thou holdest my name and hast not denied my faith." So that's, that's praiseworthy. And in those days, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful witness who was slain among you, where Swatan- Satan, Satan dwelleth. Antipas was a previous bishop, according to tradition, burned alive inside a bronze bull, inside a bull of bronze. Pleasant kind of death. Antipas was a previous bishop, according to tradition, burned alive inside a bull of bronze. When he taught Christian doctrine, obviously everybody shouted at him, "Bull bronze, bull bronze." (laughs) As a threat, you know, to, to keep on like that, this is what was facing him.Um, "The previous bishop who was burned alive inside a bull of bronze..." I'll bet you he now remembers bull bronze. (laughing) It's one of the few things that, it's one of the... (laughs) From hours and hours and hours of sacred doctrine on the Apocalypse, the, one of the few things you will remember is bull bronze. (laughing) Just wait and see. Just wait and see. Um, "Who was, uh, who was killed amongst you, where, where Satan dwells." So there are cities... Notice, there are satanized cities. It's obvious that his scripture is saying so. There are s- there is such a thing as satanized cities. Harris is today a satanized city. (laughing) It's prob- probably a lot of Black Masses, most likely, a lot of Black Masses. London has been satanized for a long time, you could say. But, "I have ad-, uh, op- I have against you a few things." "But I have against thee a few things, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel to eat and to commit fornication. So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaites." Um, so we move into the third part, which is the criticism, Balaam. See Numbers chapters 22 to 24, Jude verse 11. Balaam was the pagan prophet who advised the pagan king, Balak, to conquer the Israelites by corrupting their morals. Which is why the communists are tremendous promoters of pornography amongst, and of rock music, amongst their adversaries. They're not amongst themselves. See, the communists always used to keep those things strictly under control in communist countries, but they heavily promoted them in their enemies' countries in order to rot the West from inside by pornography and rock music. Balaam was the pagan prophet who advised the pagan king, Balak, to conquer the Israelites. Balak said, "Look, how can I beat these people? They're unbeatable. They crossed the Red Sea. God is always on their side." And the answer was, "Well, stop God being on their side. Make them sin against their God and then you will beat them easily." Diabolical advice. Very clever advice. He advised King Balak to conquer the Israelites by corrupting their morals, and that is very much what, what is happening today. If God is on their side, all you need to do is to get God to stop being on their side, and that of course you'll get him to do by making them break the commandments. Numbers 25 verses 1 to 2, chap- Numbers chapter 31 verse 16. In this case, the Balaamites are the Nicolaites. In other words, those who follow the doctrine of Deacon Nicholas, which you may remember was either... which was in e- in ca- in case it amounted to sensuality, better known today as S-E-X. Th- it was a deacon who either gave away his own wife or taught free love in order to defend his own life, as you may remember, cover up his own life. "Those, so thou too hast those who t- hold the doctrine of the Nicolaites. Likewise, do penance, lest I come quickly to you and fight with them in the, uh, sword of my mouth. In like manner, do penance. If not, I will come to thee quickly and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth." Uh, with the sword, with words of absolute authority, with cutting words, so to speak, with words of absolute authority, convicting of sin and destroying excuses. (coughing) Convicting of sin and destroying excuses. The sword of my mouth. Compare the punishment of the Israelites in Numbers 21 verse 7. "He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To he who conquers, to the one conquering, I will give hidden manna." Hidden manna is Christ beneath the sacramental species, so it's, it's, it's in this life rather than in the next, by the look of it. "To him will I say, I will give hidden manna." That's Christ hidden beneath the sacramental species. "And I will give him a white stone, a white counter," or a calculum, a small stone, a counter. "And in the counter, a new name written, which no man knoweth but he that receiveth it." A white counter is a brilliant, impassable, risen body.... a brilliant, shining white, unable to suffer risen body. I will give him a shining white stone, a shining white risen body. And on the stone, a new name written which nobody knows except he who receives it. And in the count, a new name which no man knows but he that receiveth it. The impassable risen body, the brilliant impassable risen body is a reward for remaining chaste against the Nicolaites. A new name, and on the, on the counter a new name written which nobody knows except he who receives it. A new name is a renewed soul, a new personality. A renewed soul, a new personality enjoying a peace and harmony unknown in this life. Unknown in this life except to him who enjoys it. There is the peace that passeth all understanding. The joy of, a Christian joy which the world has no idea of. A new name written which nobody knows except he who receiveth it, the counter. Church number four is the let- uh, the- the Church of Thyatira. The fourth letter is to a bishop lacking the energy to practice fraternal correction. Corresponds to the gift of fortitude, that strength which this bishop is lacking. Letter to a bishop lacking the energy to practice fraternal correction, hence the gift of fortitude. Compare 1 Samuel chapters two to four. Can anybody tell me what that is about? 1 Samuel chapters two to four. Webber, do you know? Should ? Um, the old priest who didn't correct his sons who were, um, doing something wrong with the... Yes, that's right. The ol- the o- the old priest who's, who allowed his sons, his sons, what was the sin of his sons? It's very interesting. Anybody remember? The priests who didn't correct their sons. No. I don't know. I don't think so, no. David? They bring fire. No, not either. They didn't do anything. No, no. They interfered with the sacrifice. Their sin, their sin was to take, to, to make the people give to them what should be given to God, and therefore the people got disgusted with the sacrifice. It was a serious sin. They were priests, and they were, therefore their sin was keeping people away from the sacrifice. Priests keeping people away from the sacrifice. 20th century, Novice Order. Have a look at that. Uh, one, it's, in this, in the Tan Bible it's called 1 Kings. It's best to call those four books one, 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 3 Kings, 4 Kings, because then there's no doubt of what you're talking about. One, 1 Kings, 2 Kings sometimes refers to the first two, sometimes refers to the last two. If you refer to 1 and 2 Samuel and to 3 and 4 Kings, there can't be any doubt about what books you mean. Uh, 1 Samuel, in this book, 1 Kings, one minute, chapter three, there's a verse which says their sin was that they were keeping people away from, um, oh, they were keeping people away from the sacrifice. Chapter two, verse 13? Chapter two, verse 13. Then we go on to 14. Uh, yes. That's their sin. Uh, "The sons of Eli were children of Belial, not knowing the Lord, nor the office of the priest of the people. But whosoever had offered a sacrifice, the servant or the priest came while the flesh was in boiling with a flesh hook of three teeth in his hand, and thrust it into the kettle, or into the cauldron, or into the pot, or into the pan.""And all the flesh brought up, the priest took to himself. Thus did they do all Israel that came to Shiloh." So whoever brought sacrifices, the- these- these two sons came along with a trident, a three- three-pronged fork, and whatever they- they went- went fishing, and everybody's sacrifice was a three-pronged fork, and whatever they came up with belonged to them instead of to God. Uh, I think it's later where it says that there... Here we are, now, at 17. "Wherefore the sin of the young men was exceeding great before the Lord, because they- because they withdrew men from the sacrifice of the Lord." Notice that verse. 1 Kings 2:17. That is, this has got nothing to do with the apocalypse, or very little to do with the apocalypse. But notice that verse, because it's well worth noticing. That's the sin of the novice order. The sin is exceeding great because it keeps people away from the sacrifice of the Lord. To fool around with a mass in such a way as to stop people, uh, offering the real sacrifice or taking part in the real sacrifice to God is a very serious sin. 1 Kings 2:17. Okay, so here is a bishop, the third, the fourth church, who lacks the fortitude to practice fraternal correction. He won't... He's a priest, but he won't tell people what they should do. Uh, verse... Uh, it corresponds to the fourth age of the Church, from about 500 to 1517, the 1,000 years of Christian civilization, of Catholic civilization, 1,000 years in which Mother Church was the tranquil mistress of civilization, the moralless tranquil mistress of civilization. Namely, nevertheless, two major upsets during those 1,000 years. Fox? Um, the Dark Ages of Christianity? Uh, that's you could call... Yes, you could call that- that- that's another one. Yes? The Muslims. Oh, the Mohammedanism. That's obviously a major, major upset. Mm-hmm. Late 500s, early 600s, the ravaging of all African Christianity and the good part of- of, uh, Middle Eastern, African, and even Spanish Christendom by the arrival of the Muslims. The Muslims penetrated right up into France until the French pushed them back at Bouc battle, in what time? Waged by what king? Uh, Dangard? In the middle of the field? Yes? They were, uh... like, uh, Charles Martel? Is it? Charles Martel, is that right? Mm-hmm. It wasn't Pepin the Brief? No. No, all right. Was Pepin the Brief Charles Martel's father or his son? I don't know. Pepin's son. Son. I somehow think of Pepin the Brief, uh, but, uh, Charles Martel, because he was the hammer of the Muhammadans. Yeah. Charles Martel, uh, 732, I think, right? Anybody agree with that, disagree with that? 731, Battle of Poitiers. The Mohammedans were right up in France. As far as they got, they came right through Spain. Thanks, amongst other things, to the friendship of the Jews, of course. Of course. The Jews betrayed Spain to the enemies of Christ. And the Jews are now working hand-in-hand with their enemies, their archenemies, the Muslim, in order to betray France today. The Jews and the Muslim are allied against whatever is still left of Christian France. And who is principally responsible for that state of affairs? The apostate Catholics. That's who the real problem is. So... But it's, uh, the Jews loathe the Muslims, but when it comes to fighting against Christ, the Jews will gladly work together with anybody. Fine. Um, then, uh, across from the Fourth Age of the Church, the 1,000 years of more or less tranquil Christendom. Uh, the upset of the Muslims, the upset, the Dark Ages, the 800s, 900s, and then what, uh, what... Ne- name another upset in the 1100s. (?). Uh, that, yes, of course, the 1400s, yes, the Great Schism. Think of 1100s. The Albigensian Heresy. The Albigensian Heresy of the Cathars. Now, if I was driving... If you drive through that part of France, you see lights set up like a tourist sign alongside the road, "You are entering into Cathar country." I drove past it the other night. Oh, you did probably too on the way. You saw the big brown sign, "You're entering into Cathar country." And then you drive past one of the famous Cathar castles, which is just around the road. Then you also see a monument of some of them set up by the side of the road. Any of you- did any of you see that monument? It was absolutely ugly, the monument of Cathars. The devil is just doing what he likes to do, doing what he likes. Unbelievable setup, commemorations of the Cathars, but there you are. Horrible heresy. Who- who conquered it, Sean Pitt? Uh, Saint Dominic. Saint Dominic is right, yes. By what means? The rosary. The rosary, that's right. Yes, that's right. Yeah. Um, um, um, um, um, uh, verse 1. Verse 18, rather. Uh, "These things says the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire and feet like to bronze." Feet like to fine brass, I beg your pardon. Can anybody tell me the difference between brass and bronze? Holden would say brass and bronze. (laughs) But, of course, he comes from the north of England, so you know, you have to be under- (laughs) ... you have to be un- you have to be understanding. Uh... (laughs)Um, what's the difference between brass and bronze? Uh- Isn't bronze made of copper? I don't know. Is that it? Is that the difference? Yeah, sure, uh, copper. Uh, brass and copper, okay, that's it. All right, bronze. Let me put this one up. I, I have bronze equals brass and copper, is that right? Bronze and copper. (laughing) Okay, okay. Copper plus bronze equals brass, right? Is that it? I'm not sure. (laughing) Okay, let's try again. (laughing) Well you gotta give me, that's one or the other. Bronze, I don't know. Wh- which has copper in it? Who says that brass has copper in it? Who says that bronze has copper in it? Uh, um, Ron, you're saying th- that they both have copper in them? What's the difference between brass and bronze in that case? The main component of bronze is copper and tin. Oh, boy. But it can have a number of add-ins. Okay, copper. The main- Tin. The main- Go on. ... component of bronze is copper, excuse me, tin. Oh, the main... Oh, brass. Of brass is copper. Wow, how do you know? (laughing) Uh, just because I, I was trying to (inaudible) (laughing) I had to do some research. Oh. (laughing) I had to do some research. Sorry, you did research? That's what I had to do. All right. Uh, what, what's the difference there? Bronze is stronger, brass is brighter. No, the color is comparative. Um, but bronze is harder. Bronze is harder, yeah. Uh, and what's the characteristic of brass? What's the advantage? Bigger. Brass is heavier. Brass is harder. Then what's the advantage of bronze? It's not as hard as steel. Um, the luster isn't as strong. And it still has a nice color? Yes. But brass is the one that's strong? That's right. Stronger. Yeah. Okay. Well, that's interesting. Uh, um, and His feet like to find brass. Yes, well, that's, um, uh, what do they call money in the north of England? Oh, they call it brass. (laughing) They call it money. (laughing) In fact, do you hear? (laughing) Well, you know. Um, uh, flame, eyes to penetrate. Illumine, enlighten, and enflame. Eyes to penetrate, illumine, and set ablaze. Um, the Latin is auricalco, which is like golden brass. Uh, so auricalco and feet like to golden brass. So, uh, the brass has got gold mixed into it. You're saying, Ronald, that, that both of these can have any number of different metals? Bronze has got... I would say (inaudible) copper. Brass- Go on. (laughs) (laughing) Brass has copper, um, tin. It's not the same as copper. It can have tin in it. But other than zinc is necessary. You can put any number of different metals to get different shades, different shapes of colors. Dear me. Ronald is really showing his metal. (laughing) But I, I did read, um, the page that did read about (inaudible) gold, having more shades of color to it. Okay, well, good. Okay. Well, here it's, in any case, it's, it's a golden brass. So, uh, His feet are like the golden brass. Gold, charity, again, again, always. Gold is charity. The brass is toughness or resistance. In the north of England, if you find people talking about brass, they're talking about money. Uh, verse 19, "I have known Thy works." This is of course the all-knowing God. "And faith, and Thy charity, and Thy ministry, and Thy patience, and Thy works recent more than, uh, before." Your, Your works which, um, what, how does he say it here? "And Thy last works which are more than the former." "I know Thy works, and Thy faith, and Thy charity, and Thy ministry, and Thy patience, and Thy last works, which are more than the former." What's the next word? But, you've got it. That's it, but. That's it. So this is the, verse 19 is the praise. Uh, and there is always something to praise. There's nearly always something to praise. So they haven't got everything wrong.... of course, the c- classic principle to say as, well, what is good, as well as what is bad. Uh, uh, but... So verse 20. We move into the third part, which is the criticism, "I have against thee a few things, because thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, who calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication unto the... and to eat of things sacrificed to idols. And I gave her time that she might do penance, and she will not repent of her fornication. Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and they that committed adultery with her shall be in very great tribulation, except they do penance from their deeds. And I will kill her children with death, and all the churches shall know that I am he that searcheth the reins and hearts, and I will give it every one of you according to your works. But to you I say," and so on, so... Jezebel, possibly the bishop's own wife. Remember, Saint 10... Paul says the bishop is... be a man of one woman, or of only one wife. So at this time, possibly the bishop's own wife, s- possibly someone... Possibly just a symbol of heretics, 'cause, 'cause she was a terrible creature in the third book of Kings. I'll give you a few references. Jezebel, a wicked woman. Possibly the bishop's own wife, possibly some other Nicolaites, pseudo-prophetess, possibly just a symbol of heretics. So there's heresy in amongst the church of Thyatira. 3 Kings 18:4, 19:2, 21:5 onwards. In the moral sense, Jezebel represents here... sensual softness. Sensual softness, slipping in amongst Christians, which it's always liable to do. Sensual softness slipping in amongst Christians for lack of the pastor's vigilance. What, again, we would call today S-E-X. Pius XII made an appeal not to use that word, I think he said. He said... made some of some, some such remark where he said w- what, what it... It's a very, very debasing word for what it represents. Obviously it represents a process, the reproductive process, which is a dignified and noble c- creation of God in itself, but it's a vulgar word for what is its... in itself a noble thing. The word degrades the things, says, says Pius XII, more or less. Uh, why? Obviously because the thing so often involves sin. But that's not a reason to degrade it with a word like that. That's... Anyway, I think that's what he said. Does anybody know Pius XII very well? When... He made, he made a lot of speeches. His doctrine was very good. From what year to what year was he Pope, Summers? Pius XII. 1939 to 1958. 1939 to 1958. Um, then, uh, a sensual softness slipping in amongst Christians for lack of the pastor's vigilance. Uh, "And I gave you a time... I gave him... I gave her," rather, um, "I gave her a time that she might do penance, and she will not repent of her fornication." Notice free will and free... human free will and human obstinacy. God gives her a time to do penance, that's free will. And she will not repent, obstinacy. "Behold, I will cast her into a bed" is death. "They that committed adultery with her should be in very great tribulation" is the fires of... great tribulation is the fires of hell. Um... And, uh, "I will kill her children with death." Compare 4 Kings 10:7. "She who destroyeth the house of Ahab, abolisheth the worship of Baal, and killeth the worshipers, but sticketh to the calves of A... Jeroboam." Israel is afflicted by the Syrians. Uh, Jehu was the avenger of A- or the one who took vengeance, God's vengeance, on Ahab and Jezebel.And he wrote letters to them saying, "If you'll be mine and will obey me, take the heads of the sons of your master and come to me to Jezreel by, by tomorrow this time." Now, the king's sons being, this is Ahab of Jezreel, being 70 men were brought up with the chief men of the city and when the letters came to them, they took the king's sons and slew 70 persons, put their heads in baskets and sent them to Jezreel. So, uh, so the, "I will kill their sons," is a reference back to the Old Testament, the, uh, Jehu's, uh, killing of the sons of Ahab. Je- Jezebel can't have had 70 sons herself, obviously, but these were the... maybe they were all sons of Ahab, I don't know. But in any case, uh, they were killed by the avenging Jehu. So Four Kings 10:7, uh, "I will kill in death and they will all know, uh, and all of the church will know that I am he who sounds, that searcheth the reins and hearts." "I will kill her children with death and all the churches shall know that I am he that searcheth the reins and hearts." R-E-I-N-S is French. Uh, the, the modern English word is kidneys. I am the one that sounds out the kidneys. Apparently, the kidneys are well buried in the, the lower part of our trunk or inside our trunk and it takes, uh, quite a good surgeon to get, get one out, to find it and yank it out. That was one of the features of Jack the Ripper, that, um... Jack the Ripper, I think the fourth or fifth murder, I reread that book recently, the fourth or the fifth murder, um, purely intellectual interest of course- (laughs) Um, the fourth or fifth, uh, th- the murderer sent a kidney, one of the kidneys of the victim to the police to make fun of the police and, uh, that, it, it was a, a clue that gave an idea that Jack the Ripper must have been something of a surgeon or a doctor, somebody, because not just anybody could go inside, uh, a corpse and cut out a kidney. I think the killers sent a kidney to the police. I, as I, as I recall. And the, the indeed, Jack the Ripper was actually three people. There were, it was a team of three who committed the murders. There was an artist, a famous artist called Walter Sickert, uh, o- one of the surgeons of Queen Victoria, Sir something Gull, Thomas Gull I think it was, and a coachman. And the team of three, there was a coachman who drove the coach and then the two of them, uh, th- the artist would step out and talk to the woman and she would get into the cab and then the surgeon would kill, would, they would feed he- the victim grapes in the cab, which would put her to sleep and then the surgeon would cut her to pieces and they would lay her back on the pavement and drive off in the coach. So it was actually a team of three. Um, somebody sent me through the post recently, I don't know, a Freemasonic, a, a little essay by some Freemasons denying that the Freemasons had had anything to do with, uh, Jack the Ripper. It, to my mind, the book is absolutely convincing and it seems to me highly likely, if not absolutely certain, that it were, they were Masonic murders. But it's typical that the Masons are still to this day trying to cover up or wanting to cover up or confusing the issue in order to stop themselves being discredited. But they were Masonic murders because the Masons were protecting the royal family from a scandal that threatened to erupt and so when these poor women, the poor four women in the, in the East End of London tried to blackmail the royal family, the Masons closed in and killed the four women in a sensational way so as to tell everybody who had, who knew anything about it, if at all, "We Masons are in control. Don't, don't mess with us." That's when one of the corpses was found on the pavement, there were found three pennies in the form of a triangle and to anybody who knew that, that said masonry. It was a, a, in other words, they were what called, what Malcolm Martin calls, it's probably a, a classic expression, signature murders, like, just like the priest killed recently in, um, in, uh, Wisconsin, Father Kunz, Kunz, Father Kunz I think it was. K-U-N-Z, Kunz. Um, it was a signature murder. In other words, his body was mutilated in a particular way as to tell everybody who knows anything about it, "This was done by us. Don't mess with us." They still haven't in, over in Wisconsin found the murderers- (INaudible). ... probably because the police said he's probably somebody local who would know the habits of Father Kunz, when he would be where and so on and who knew their way in and that, who, when they knocked at the door, he would probably have opened to them. Strangers, he might not have opened to, but for them he might have, would have opened, so probably somebody local. But if it's Satanists, it seems likely, that, that the signature seems to have been a signature of Satanists. The mutilations indicate Satanists. The Satanists will probably not be found by the police, quote, unquote. They "won't be found," because they're too high. They're probably local architects, local doctors, local very respectable citizens probably, but secret Satanists. Are you saying (inaudible) Yes. Faggotry, faggotry might well also come into it because he was onto their case. Father Kunz was onto their case as well. I think my s- my sheer guess, I don't really, don't really know, but my sheer guess is it's more likely to be Satanists. In that case, the mutilations were characteristic of Satanists.