... and arranged. I know. Uh, I promised you the, uh, I found these sheets of the protocols, which is just the very briefest of summ- Some extraction on protocols of the learned elders of Seon. "Our call of liberty, equality, and fraternity brought whole legions to our ranks from all four corners of the world through our blind agents, and these legions carried our banners with enthusiasm. In the meantime, these ideas were eating like so many canker worms into the well-being of the Goyim and were destroying their peace, quiet, and solidarity, thus ruining the foundations of states." The Goyim are, of course, the cattle, the Gentiles. "As we shall see later on, it was this action which brought about our triumph. Amongst other things, it gave us the possibility of playing our master card, namely the abolition of privileges, in other words, the existence of the Gentile aristocracy which was the, which was the only protection nations and countries had against us. On the ruins of the natural and hereditary ar- aristocracy of the Goyim, we set up an aristocracy of our own founded upon wealth of which we had control and upon science provided by our scholars. The press in the hands of existing governments is a great power by which the control of people's mind is obtained. It is in the press that the triumph of freedom of speech finds its incarnation. But the Goyim states have not known how to make use of this force, and it has fallen into our hands. Through the press, we have obtained influence while remaining ourselves in the background. Thanks to the press, we have accumulated gold, although it has cost us oceans of blood. It ha- but it has paid us well, though we have sacrificed many of our own people. Nowadays, with the destruction of the aristocracy, the people have fallen into the clutches of merciful profi- merciless profiteers who have laid a pitiless and cruel yoke upon the necks of the workers. We intend to appear on the scene as though we were the liberators of the worker from this oppression when we shall propose to him to join the ranks of our f- fighting forces, socialists, anarchists, and communists. The latter we always patronize, pretending to help them in accordance with the principle of fraternity and the general interest of humanity evoked by our socialistic masonry. Our strength lies in keeping the working man in perpetual want and misery. We move the masses by making use of feelings of jealousy and hatred enkindled by oppression and need. With their hands, we shall sweep aside all those who impede our advance. This hatred will become still more acute thanks to an economic crisis which will stop dealings on the exchanges and bring industry to a standstill. We will create, by all the secret underhand methods known to us and with the help of gold, which is all in our hands, a universal economic crisis whereby we shall throw upon the streets whole mobs of workers simultaneously in all the countries of Europe. These mobs will run with delight to shed the blood of those whom, in the simplicity of their ignorance, they have envied from childhood and whose possessions th- they will then be able to loot. Our possessions they will not touch because the moment of the attack will be known to us and we will take measures to protect our interests. Gentile Freemasonry blindly serves as a screen for us and for our purposes, but the plan of action of our force and even our headquarters remain perpetually unknown to the world at large. Even liberty might be harmless and have its place in the economy of states without injury to the well-being of peoples if it rested upon the foundation of faith in God, upon the brotherhood of man, unconnected with the idea of equality, which is negative by the very laws of creation. With such a faith as this, the people might be governed by their parish rulers and would walk contentent- contentedly and humbly under the guiding hand of their spiritual pastors, submitting to the dispositions of God upon Earth. Hence, it is indispensable for us to undermine all faith, to tear out of the minds of the Goyim the very idea of God and to replace it by arithmetical calculations and material needs. In order to divert the minds of the Goyim from our policy, it is essential that we should keep them occupied with trade and commerce. Thus, all nations will be striving for their own advantage and in this worldwide struggle will not notice their common enemy. But so that liberty may entirely dislocate and ruin the Goyim communities, we must put industry on a speculative basis. The result is, this will be that the wealth of the land extracted by industry will not remain in the hands of the Goyim but will come through speculation into our coffers. The struggle for supremacy and the unceasing speculations in business will create a demoralized, selfish, and heartless society. Such a society will become completely indifferent to and even disgusted with religion and politics. Lust of gold will be their only guide and will become with them a veritable cult for the sake of material pleasures which they can procure by its means."Then the hour will have arrived when the lower classes of the Goim, not for noble motive nor even for the sake of wealth, but purely and simply out of hatred for the upper classes, will follow our lead against our rivals, the more intelligent amongst the Goim. The aristocracy of the Goim as a political force is dead. We need not take it into account. But as landed proprietors, they can still be dangerous to us because their independence is secured thanks to their property. It is essential, therefore, for us to deprive them of their land at whatever cost. To attain this object, the best method is to force up rates and taxes, thus increasing the burdens upon landed property. These measures will keep landowners in a state of humble and unconditional submission. At the same time, we must give all possible protection to commerce and industry, but above all, to speculation of which the principal role is to act as a counterpoise to industry. In the absence of speculation, industry would multiply capital in private hands and would serve to restore agriculture by freeing the land from indebtedness to the land banks. What we seek to bring about is that industry should drain the land of all its riches and that speculation should transfer into our hands all the wealth of the world. Thus, all the Goim will be thrown into the ranks of the proletariat. Then the Goim will bow down before us in order to obtain a precarious right to exist. In order to ruin the industry of the Goim and to help speculation, we will encourage the desire for boundless luxury, which we have already developed. We will raise wages, but this will not bring any advantage to the workers, for at the same time, we will raise the prices of the first necessities of life. We will also artfully undermine the basis of production by sowing the seeds of anarchy amongst the workmen. In order to prove that all the Goim governments of Europe are subject to us, we will show our power to one of them by means of crimes and violence. That is to say, by a reign of terror. And in case they all rise against us, we will respond with American, Chinese, or Japanese guns. When we introduce the poison of liberalism into the state organism, its whole political complexion underwent a change. States have been seized with a mortal illness, blood poisoning- blood poisoning. There remains only to wait the end of their agony. What prompted us to adopt such a line of action if it was not because we could not, as a scattered race, attain our object by direct means, but only by circumvention? This was the real cause and origin of our organization of masonry, which those Goim cattle do not fathom, and the aims of which they do not even suspect. They are attracted by us into the show army of masonic lodges in order to throw dust in the eyes of their fellows. When we at last definitely come into our kingdom, we shall make it our task to see that against us such things as plots no longer exist. Every kind of new institution of anything like a sec- secret society under us will also be punished with death. Those of them which are now in existence unknown to us, serve us, and have served us. Those we shall disband and sent into exile to continents far removed from Europe. In this way, we shall proceed with the- those Goim masons who know too much. Such of these as we may for some reason spare will be kept in constant fear of exile. We shall promulgate a law making all former members of secret societies liable to exile from Europe. Meantime, however, until we come into our kingdom, we shall act in the contrary way. We shall create and multiply masonic lodges in all the countries of the world, absorb into them all who may become or are prominent in public activity. For in these lodges we shall find our principal intelligence offices and means of influence. All these lodges we shall bring under one central administration known to us alone, and to all others absolutely unknown, which will be composed of our learned elders. The lodges will have their representatives who will serve to screen the above-mentioned administration of masonry and from whom will issue the watchword and program. In these lodges, we shall tie the knot which binds together all revolutionary and liberal elements. The most secret political plots will be made known to us and will fall under our guiding hands on the very day of their conception. The class of people who most willingly enter into secret societies are those who live by their wits, careerists, and in general people mostly like minded with whom we should have no difficulty in dealing and in using to wind up the mechanism of the machine devised by us. It is natural that we and no others should lead masonic activities for we know whether- where we are going. We know the final goal of every form of activity whereas the Goim have knowledge of nothing. The Goim enter the lodges out of curiosity or in the hope by means of the lodges to get a nibble at the public pie, and some of them in order to obtain a hearing before the public for their impracticable and ground- impracticable and groundless fantasies. They thirst for success and applause of which we are remarkably generous. And the reason why we give them this success is to make use of the high conceit of themselves to which it gives birth. In order to keep the Goim from discovering from themselves any new line of action in politics, we will also distract them with amusements, games, pastimes, passions, people's palaces and so on."Soon we shall start advertising in the press, inviting people to enter for various competitions in art, in sport of all kinds. These interests will finally turn away their minds from questions in which we should find ourselves compelled to oppose them. We have taken great care to discredit the clergy of the Goim in the eyes of the people, and thus we have succeeded in ruining their mission, which could have been very much in our way. The influence of the clergy on the people is lessening day by day. Today, freedom of conscience prevails everywhere and now only a few years divide us from the time when Christianity will finally crumble away. We will confine the clergy and their teachings to such a small part in life, and their influence will be made so uncongenial to the populace that their teachings will have the opposite effect to that which they formerly had." That's an- an old edition. I, it's wondrously ... (mumbles) maybe you find, uh... "We have long past taken care to discredit the priesthood of the Goim and thereby to ruin their mission on Earth, which in these days might still be a great hindrance to us. Day by day, its influence on the peoples of the world is falling lower. Freedom of conscience has been declared everywhere so that now only years divide us from the moment of the complete wrecking of their Christian religion. As to other religions, we shall have still less difficulty in dealing with them, but it would be premature to speak of this now. We shall set clericalism and clericals into such narrow frames as to make their influence move in contrary proportion to its former progress." "When the time comes finally to destroy the papal court, the finger of an invisible hand will point the nations toward this court. When, however, the nations fling themselves upon it, we shall come forward in the guise of its defenders, as if to save excessive bloodshed. By this diversion, we shall penetrate to the very bowels of the papal court and be sure that we shall never come out again until we have gnawed through the entire strength of this place. The king of the Jews will be the real pope of the universe, the patriarch of an international church. But in the meantime, while we are re-educating youth in new traditional religions, and afterwards in ours, we shall not overtly lay a finger on existing churches, but we shall fight against them by criticism calculated to produce schism. In general then, our contemporary press will continue to convict state affairs, religions, incapacities of the Goim, always using the most unprincipled expressions in order by every means to lower their prestige in the manner which can only prac- be practiced by the genius of our gifted pride." "Our kingdom will be an apology of the divinity of Vishnu in which is found its personification, the 100-armed arm. In our hundred hands will be, one in each, the springs of the machinery of social life. We shall see everything without the aid of official police, which in that scope of its rights, which we elaborated for the use of the Goim, hinders governments from seeing. In our program, one third of our subjects will keep the rest under observation from a sense of duty on the principle of volunteer service to the state." That's spying in the communist countries. "It will then be no disgrace to be a spy and informer, but a merit. Unfounded denunciations, however, will be cruelly punished, that there may be no development of abuses of this right." (sighs) And so on. Um, he talks the emasculation of the university, of the universities. "In order to affect the destruction of all collective forces except ours, we shall emasculate the first stage of collectivism, the universities, by re-educating them in a new direction. Their officials and professors will be prepared for their business by detailed secret programs of action from which they will not with immunity diverge, not by one iota. They will be appointed with a special precaution and will be so placed as to be wholly dependent upon the government. We shall exclude from the course of instruction, state law, as also all that concerns the political question. These subjects will be taught to a few dozens of persons, chosen from their preem- for their preeminent capacities from among the member of the initia- the number of the initiated." "The universities must no longer send out from their halls milksops concocting plans for a constitution, like a comedy or a tragedy, busying themselves with questions of policy in which even their own fathers never had any power of thought. The ill-guided acquaintance of a large number of persons with questions of polity creates utopian dreamers and bad subjects, as you can see for yourselves from the example of the universal education in this direction of the Goim. We must introduce into their education all those principles which have so brilliantly broken up their order, principles of liberalism.""But when we are in power, we shall remove every kind of disturbing subject from the course of education and shall make out of the youth, children obedient to authority, loving him who rules as the support and hope of peace and quiet. Classicism, as also any form of study of ancient history, in which there are more bad than good examples, we shall replace with a study of the program of the future. We shall erase from the memory of men all facts of previous centuries which are undesirable to us, and leave only those which depict all the errors of the governments of the Goim. The study of practical life, of the obligations of order, of the relations of people one to another, of avoiding bad and selfish examples which spread the infection of evil, and similar questions of an educative nature will stand in the forefront of the teaching program, which will be drawn up on a separate plan for each calling or state of life, in no way generalizing the teaching." "Each state of life must be trained within strict limits corresponding to its destination and work in life. The occasional genius has always managed and always will manage to slip through into other states of life, but it is the most perfect folly, for the sake of this rare occasional genius, to let through into ranks foreign to them the untalented who thus rob of their places those who belong to those ranks by birth or employment. You know yourselves in what all this has ended for the Goim who allowed this crying absurdity." Oof. Um, "We shall assume to ourselves the liberal characterizing of all parties, of all directions, and we shall give that characterization a voice in orators who will speak so much that they will exhaust the patience of their hearers and produce a horror of oratory." "In order to put public opinion into our hands, we must bring it into a state of bewilderment, by giving expression from all sides to so many contradictory opinions, and for such length of time, as will suffice to make the Goim lose their heads in the labyrinth, and come to see that the best thing is to have no opinion of any kind in matters political, which is not given to the public to understand, because they are understood only by him who guides the public." This is the first secret. The second secret requisite for the s- success of our government is the following, to multiply to such an extent national failings, habits, passions, conditions of civil life that it will be impossible for anyone to know where he is in the resulting chaos, so that the people in consequence will fail to understand one another. This measure will also serve us in another way, namely to sow discord in all parties, to dislocate all collective forces which are still unwilling to submit to us, and to discourage any kind of personal initiative which might in any degree hinder our affair. There is nothing more dangerous than personal initiative. If it has genius behind it, such an initiative can do more than can be done by millions of people, among whom we have sown discord. We must so direct the education of the Goim communities that whenever they come upon a matter requiring initiative, they may drop their hands in despairing impotency. The strain which results from freedom, freedom of action saps the forces when it meets with the freedom of another. From this collision arise grave moral shocks, disenchantments, failures. By all these means, we shall so wear down the Goim that they will be compelled to offer us international power of a nature that, by its position, will enab- enable us without any violence gradually to absorb all the state forces of the world and to form a super government. In place of the rulers of today, we shall set up a bogey which will be called the super government administration. Its hands will reach out in all directions like nippers, and its organization will be of such colossal dimensions that it cannot fail to subdue all the nations of the world." That's the United Nations. Pretty. Very pretty. (clears throat) I recommend it. (clears throat) It's, uh, it's discovery at the beginning of- at the beginning of this century- the end of the last century to the beginning of this century was a gift of God. The Lord God was saying to Christian civilization, "Look, get- get your act n- This is, this is, this is what is, this is what's going on." How can the Goim defend themselves against this? Anybody? You know my answer to that. You see? By the Catholic faith, yet that's the only defense. That's why God allows this. God preserves these people. They have the mark of Cain upon them, and they have the curse upon them. But God preserves them because he uses them as a scourge every time the Gentiles turn away from, um, abandon the faith. So... Or every time Jews abandon the faith. I mean, every time Catholics abandon the faith. It's not a question of Gentiles. It's a question of Catholics.... return the Catholics back in the faith. This is always- this creature is always ready to strike like a snake, waiting for somebody to step out too far w- in reach, so that it can bite. But if people have the faith, this doesn't take. They can't th- th- this in- diabolical cunning, this- this satanic knowledge of human nature, diabolic cunning, can't work. That's how it was in the Middle Ages when they- these people were- they- where they were scheming all of this in their- in their ghettos. They were waiting, waiting, waiting to get out of the ghettos in order to start this. What was the decisive moment for getting out of the ghetto? Darwin? Blessing. Yes, that was pretty important. Yes. Yes. For getting out of the ghetto, you might be right. And then for being- ev- after getting out of the ghetto, to be emancipated? Emancipate- French Revolution. Yeah. There's two- those two events. Oh, is the Protestant. The Reformation, the French Revolution. Those are the two events. Immediately after the French Revolution, they- they- once they were emancipated in civil society, they immediately took over. They- they rapidly took over government, finance, industry, money, you name it. They rapidly took over because the Goim were blind. The Goim- what were the Goim by then thinking about these people? Hoffman? When- when the Goim emancipated these people, what did they think? What did the Goim think about themselves? "I'm liberal. I'm enlightened. I'm superior to my ancestors. They were unjust to these poor, downtrodden, oppressed people. I am giving them their rights equal with ourselves." Huh? It's exactly what they were so proud and puffed up that they were more liberal, and that they were more generous, and that they were at last being- looking after these poor, oppressed, downtrodden people. Victims of antisemitism for so many years. "Oh. Ooh. Oh, how superior we liberals are." Franklin, Benjamin Franklin's, a famous quotation of Benjamin Franklin to the- I think the Constitutional Convention. He said, "Gentlemen, if you don't stop these people coming into the republic, within 200 years they will have completely taken it over." Does anybody know that quotation? Benjamin Franklin. Of course, you don't read it in any history books, but that's what he said. He said, "If you don't, they will take over and our sons will not have a penny to put to their names. Our grandsons will not have a penny to their names." Exactly right. Yeah. So, this is still the Book of the Apocalypse. I mean this is, uh, uh, ...
And he spoke with me. This angel spoke with John in intimacy because of John's purity. And he said, "Come, I will show thee the damnation of the great whore, who sitteth upon many waters." (thud) "Come." In other words, retire within thy soul. If an angel says come, it's retire within thy soul. Pray in order to see the inner truth. The great harlot, H-A-R-L-O-T... is, in the moral sense, infidelity to God. In the allegorical sense, the Antichrist and his allies. I will show you the damnation of the great harlot who sitteth upon many waters, abundant waters. Abundant waters are the peoples. For instance, the kings and the inhabitants of the earth, verse two. The abundant waters are the king, the peoples, kings and inhabitants of the earth. Verse two, "With whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and those who inhabit the earth are become drunk from the wine of, uh, prostitution." The Scarlet Woman with whom the kings of the earth have fornicated and the dwellers of the earth have become drunk. The dwellers of the earth are again earthly people who say we have here a lasting city. We do not seek one that is to come, materialists. Hebrew, compare Hebrews chapter 13, verse 14. St. Paul says, "We have not here a lasting city. We seek one that is to come." The inhabitants of the earth here are those who settle down contentedly in this life as though there is no other, who only want to live for this life. Materialists again, you could call it. So the inhabitants of earth in verse two are the materialists. The materialists have grown drunk with the wine of her prostitution. The wine is the attractiveness of creatures, the sweet attractiveness of creatures, effacing the four last things, heaven, hell, death, judgment. So the wine means the attractiveness of creatures wiping out of men's minds the lar- the four last things. (clears throat) "And," verse three, "the angel took me away in spirit into the desert, and I saw a woman sitting up on a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns." Uh, and, "And he took me away in spirit into the desert." Spirit is ecstasy, and the desert is here the wasteland of sin. The, the angel took me away in ecstasy into the wasteland of sin. "And I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast," uh, "purple beast," whoa, doo, doo, doo, "sitting upon a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns." The woman, uh, represents sensuality. Sensuality, whereas the spiritual life is virile, softness and sensuality are materialism, whereas the spiritual life is virile. The beast is the devil... who carries sensuality slowly but surely to hell.The, uh, beast is red. A scarlet-colored beast. A scarlet-colored beast... is his criminality. The beast is criminal, bloody, criminal. The seven heads are the capital sins, the seven capital sins. A scarlet-colored beast full of names of blasphemy having seven heads and 10 horns. Seven heads are the capital sins, and 10 horns are pride. Verse four, "And the woman was clothed round about with purple and scarlet and gilt with gold and precious stones and pearls having a golden cup in her hand full of the abomination and filthiness of her fornication." The woman was clothed round about with purple and scarlet. Purple is the royalty of sensuality. She is the queen of this world. The royalty of sensuality. (sneezes) Sensuality is the queen of this world. The scarlet lining, the beast is scarlet, and then the lining of the woman's coat is scarlet. The scarlet lining is the hidden cruelty of sensuality. Sensuality looks all soft and nice outside but inside it's cruel, (sniffs) like the girl getting an abortion. (sighs) The inner cruelty of sensuality, the scarlet lining. She is decked in gold. She's gilt with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of the abomination and filthiness of her fornication. Decked in gold is her outer appearance of wisdom and charity. Her outer appearance of wisdom and charity. Precious stone, and with pearls. The precious stone is Christ hypocritically assumed. Uh, th- uh, the precious stone is a hypocritical wearing or putting on of Christ, a hy- a hypocritical show of Christ. And the pearls are apparent virtues. (sneezes) So there's a show of Christianity. Having a golden cup in her hand full of the abomination and filthiness of her fornication. The golden cup in, is divine truth. But in her hand, that truth is misinterpreted. (sniffs) In her hand, that divine truth is misinterpreted and mishandled, so that out comes only her own filth, (sniffs) her own muck and filth. (sniffs) Verse five, "And on her forehead, a name was written, a mystery, 'Babylon the Great, the Mother of the Fornications and the Abominations of the Earth.'" (sniffs) On her forehead means that her wickedness is clear to see for all who see with the eyes of faith. (sniffs) On her forehead means that her real inner wickedness is clear to see to all with the eyes of faith. (sniffs) On her forehead is written, "Mystery" Mystery, that same wickedness is unintelligible to materialists, to worldlings, people of the world. (sneezes)Babylon is the city of evil raised by human pride against the City of God... (pausing) mothering all kinds of wickedness and sin. Mother of fornications, she is mothering, Babylon is mothering all kinds of wickedness and sin. (pausing) Verse six. "And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus, and I wondered when I had seen her with great admiration." (pausing) "But I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints." Drunk shows the woman's wild- it shows the wild nature of the world for Christians. The wild hatred of the world of sensuality, of materialism for true Christians. (pausing) "And when I had seen her, I wondered with a great admiration." Admiration means rather astonishment than, uh, approval. The old use of admiration. Uh, John is astonished at the success and serenity of the harlot, the Scarlet Woman. (pausing) John is astonished at the success and serenity of the harlot. (laughs) "And the angel said to me, 'Why didst thou wonder? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman and of the beast which carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.'" The... Why? What are you wondering at, says the angel. John... Why should John, why is John surprised? He knows the wickedness of man and the justice of God. Why should John be surprised that the Scarlet Woman looks so successful and serene, just like Clinton? Why? Why be so surprised at somebody like Clinton? You know how wicked men are. Oh, yeah, but I'm longing for him to get his comeuppance. Don't worry. Don't worry. God is gonna get him. Vengeance is mine... I will repay. Good, good, good. Yeah, that's true. That's right. Where do you... where would you look for that? Vengeance is mine, I will repay? Romans 12. Well done. Yeah, it's in Romans 12, that's right. Uh, going back to... of course, it's Deuter- it's, uh, I think it's Deuteronomy. Romans 12, vengeance is mine, I will repay. Romans 12. It's a very important thing to remember today. Otherwise, you could look at the scene today and, and really go crazy. Vengeance is mine, I will repay. Uh, D... Deuteronomy 32 verse 35. Matthew 5:39. Deuteronomy 32 verse 35. Hebrews 10 verse 30. So it's, it's originally from Deuteronomy. "Revenge not yourselves, my dearly beloved, gi- give place unto wrath, for it is written, 'Revenge is mine, I will repay,' saith the Lord." The Psalms constantly say the same thing. Notice the Psalms. And you, you know, you and I sort of sit there... Wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh. Neigh neigh neigh neigh neigh neigh. (laughs) Wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh wuh. Neigh neigh neigh neigh neigh neigh. Wuh wuh wuh. But look at what it's saying. Look at what it's saying. The bad guys are gonna get it. (laughs) The good guys are gonna... It's constant. The good guys are gonna be rewarded, and the bad guys are gonna get it. Read it. Yeah, it's there. Hey. (laughs)