Verse 16. I think it is. 16, "And the city lieth in a four square. The length thereof is as great as the breadth, and they measured the s- s- city with a golden reed for 12,000 furlongs in the length, and the height and the breadth thereof are equal." What style of painting would be suitable? Joke cubism. Uh, what is, what was the, uh, what is the period which cubist painting comes? What did I say, Fox? 1800s? No. 19... 18... No. Cubism. Early 1900s. Early 1900s, that was before the First World War, a little while before the First World War. What was going on in painting at that time, a little before the First World War? Damgard? Impressionism. That's a little before, a little before the First World War. Impressionism is 1880s, 1890s. 1870s maybe. What country was impression, was impressionism going out from? Daniel, do you know? What was... what... why was it called impressionism? Holden? Because it was from France. France, yes. Uh, a number of, uh, innovations in the, uh, in the visual arts without, I think, in France and Italy, the most visually artistic countries. Uh, why is it called impressionism? Anybody know? Holden? Because it was rather than, um, the, the real representation of what's in front of you, 'cause impressionists were painters and they took the paintings known about them. Uh, it's the m... Yeah, it's portraying the impression rather than... It's the impression of the object rather than the object, let's say. So whereas right through, all the way in painting up until then, more or less, painters have been pretty faithful to the object, with impressionism, they're rather giving you the impression of the object. So you get, in, in, uh, in the middle of summer, you'll get the whole, everything sort of seeming to shimmer, for instance. The heat, sh- shimmering in the heat, and it will paint like shimmering. So all, all the outlines will be a little bit blurred. That's impressionism. It was a name given, given in the Catholic Church, a name invented to describe something new fairly recently. Since modernism and since even neo-modernism. A name invented to describe something new. Sadevacantism. Yes, and/or. And another one, another name. Sadevacantism is a name invented to sum up something, to sum up something that's real. Even if what's real is quite a variety, a ragbag if you like, so there are a number of different sadevacantists with a number of different opinions. Nevertheless, sadevacantism is a rag, um, a ragbag name for a bunch of people going sorted in the same way. Similarly, impressionist painters, they're quite var- varied one from another, but the ragbag name is that they are... The object is beginning to dissolve, so to speak, and that's the end of the 19th century. By the beginning of the s- 20th century, what's happening in arts, in your visual arts? Especially painting, which is the, probably the most substantial, at the same time as being flexible of the visual arts. It's more substantial than drawing, and it's more flexible than sculpture, which is why it's probably... Uh, what's going on, um, at the beginning of the 20th century in this process of the object dissolving? Expressionism is very very separate from impressionism. Uh, yes, from impressionism to expressionism, and from expressionism, of course, to abstract artist, beginning about that time. What does abstract art represent? (laughs) You may... well may you laugh, yes. What does abstract art represent? Anybody? As far as the object is concerned. Well, it's the breakdown or the breakup of the object, whichever you look. If the... The tie with the object is being severed, uh, it's, it's unrecogniz- the, the object is becoming unrecognizable. Well, the whole motive is to separate from the object. I'm sorry? The whole motive is to be separated from the object. Isn't that the whole- The motive of abstract art? Uh, y- yes, if you like. Yes. It's, it's, it's pretending that, you know, the shapes and colors on the canvas need have nothing to do with visual reality. It pretends that music is an abstract art, and therefore the visual arts are just sort of joining the state of music. And so there was a whole lot of theory about it. In any case, cubism is one of the early, um, early versions. It's, it's sort of... Cubism is, is the, uh, the end of the object. The very end of the object. And it breaks down, uh, breaks down everything you, you see, uh, in terms of into cubes. So that everything turns into a bunch of cubes. There's a famous portrait of a woman walking downstairs, which looks like a bunch of cubes.I mean, if you can imagine, you know, one walking down like a bunch of cu- does... there's like a bunch of cubes. Well, that's what the painting is. And soon, it will be all cubes and then no relation to the object at all, and that's abstract art. So if you like impressionism, expressionism, uh, abstract, uh, cubism, abstract art, it's all going in the direction of the breakdown of the object. What does that... what does that correspond to historically? Why, why does this kind of art arise at this, at this point in history? Summers. They didn't want to have, um, the ********* system, uh, the minds of everybody who had freedom to do what they wanted. Uh, that's why it's done. Why? Because they wanted it. (laughs) They're free. They're allowed to do whatever. They're free to have- Yeah. Maybe. Why do they want more freedom of that kind? Why... They were happy. Why have people not wanted their freedom ever before? Why will most people have before considered that kind of freedom to be fairly insane? Because it's more acceptable nowadays. Free, and that kind of freedom is more acceptable nowadays, yes. Uh, what does it correspond to in music? What's going on in music at that time? What's going on in literature at that time? Does anybody know? What's going on in music before the First World War? (?). Yeah. The breakdown of the scale, of the major and the minor scale. In what, what, in what's, what's that breakdown re- what's the scale replaced by? Steven McDonald, do you know? Do you have any idea? Well, basically, they're democratic (inaudible) all the time. That's it, a 12-tone scale. Yes, the 12-tone system it's called, uh, which the main inventor is? Or the m- Schoenberg, yes. What's his first name? Arnold? Arnold Schoenberg. Viennese? Jew? Yeah. Anyway. (laughing) It tells you quite a lot right there. They're clever. They're clever. They have an instinct for subversion. Uh, the... You had, um, um... Dr. Andrew Childs explaining to you the, the non-democratic major or minor scale. There's the tonic, there's the dominant, there are certain notes more prominent, certain notes less prominent in any scale. The scale can start anywhere. It can start on C, it can start on C sharp, D, D f- uh, E flat and so on, but nevertheless, once you take a certain scale, certain notes are more prominent and certain notes are less prominent. The 12-tone scale, has anybody listened to any 12-tone music? You may have listened a bit without knowing you were listening to it. It sounds pretty horrible, but it's exactly the same thing. It corresponds exactly to what's going on in, in the arts. It's the breakdown, the breakdown of the classical, of the normal. It's the breakdown of what's normal. It's the breakdown of what's classical. Why is what is normal and classical breaking down at the end of the 19th century? Beginning of the 20th century? And what was the enormous manifestation of that breakdown? Weber. Beginning of the 20th century. (coughs) A massive breakdown. The lights are going out all over Europe and we shall not see them lit again in our generation. Have you any idea? Schmidt? World War I. World War I. When was World War I? What are the dates of World War I, Weber? 1814. Sorry, again. 1818, 1914. (laughing) Ah. Slight difference. (laughing) Uh, 1914, 1918, that's right. That was the inner breakdown becoming outwardly manifest. Everybody thought the First World War would last just a few weeks. The peri- per- uh, the French thought they would very soon be in Berlin. The Germans thought they'd very soon be in Paris. And then it lasted... It turned into a slugfest, and it lasted for four years, with an unimaginable slaughter of, um, Europe's youth, of the flower of Europe's youth. Um, why? Why? Why World War I? Why the breakdown of the arts? Why the breakdown of music? Portugal? At the end of the Victorian era, people were getting to be, uh, people were always living good facades. But they wanted- But why is it the end of the Victorian era? Why wasn't the Victorian era succeeded by th- its continuation? Why did it break down? It's not just because Victoria had reigned for 60 years or 61 years that it all broke down. It was doing it because of the, uh, current in society that people were just leading themselves and debauchery. There was no principle there. Uh, and so, as a result, there were no principles to anything, so they did things like ******, things like gambling. So naturally, you had these problems with artists leaving for war. Yes, that's... That's got a lot... That's, that's a lot of... It's, it's liberalism, it's the comeuppance of liberalism. The triumphant philosophy of the 19th century was liberalism. Um. Hierarchy was breaking down and all of, all the artists, and then decided that hierarchy didn't amount, and society was basically coming into power to make this detach from the hierarchy which had come down from- And what's the principle behind breaking down hierarchy? Freedom. And? Equality. And equality, and?Non serviam and... liberty and freedom is the same thing. Liberty and freedom is a Germanic word and a Latin word. But there's another one, begi- Begin with what? Begins with a D. Democracy. Democracy, breaking down of hierarchy. Hierarchy, as far as God is... Wherever there's God, there's going to be hierarchy. And wherever there's hierarchy, there's going to be a God. The, the officer asks in if there's no God, why... Anybody remember? Had this one before? "If there's no God, why should I be a colonel?" I think he says. Or, "If there's no God, why should I be a captain?" In other words, if there's no God, there's gonna be no hierarchy in the army. Who can give me an example of that actually happening? An army where there actually was, in theory, no hierarchy, precisely because they were godless devils. Anybody know? The first Republic, 1930. Maybe. Could well be. It logically would be. I don't know about that, but in... certainly in the Spanish Civil War in, uh, 1936 to 1939, the Communists began without having officers and anything. Of course, you can be darn sure there actually was somebody giving orders and somebody receiving them. You could be darned sure. But nevertheless, the theory was that they were all comrades and they were all absolutely equal and so and so on. It may be true of the French Revolution. It would be, it would be normal if it was. Uh, so hierarchy, the, the breakdown of hierarchy basically and always and simply the turning away from God. The whole of the 19th century was one long, slow turning away from God. What did the, what did the 19th century begin with? St. Thomas Aquinas, First Letter. No, no. First Letter on beat. What did the 19th century begin with? You're quite right about the 20th century. The 20th century, the first, Pius X's First Letter was precisely exactly that. The great problem of the world, what was the name of that encyclical? The first encyclical of Pius X is Aea Suprema Apostolatus. I think that's right. In any case, uh, he mentions, the trouble is that people are k- kicking out God, and that's the root of everything. And it's, of course, it's absolutely true. But, uh, what, what did the 19th century begin with? Uh. Hi- historically, broadly speaking, generally speaking, historically. Say something you know about the history of the early, beginning of the 19th century. Uh, Napoleon. Yeah, Napoleon, right. Good. Napoleon, the Napoleonic Wars, which is the continuation of the French Revolution, which is obviously the destruction of what class? The destruction of which class? Aristocrats. Aristocrats. They're getting rid of the aristocrats. And what class rises to the top, following on the French Revolution? The middle class. The middle class, the bourgeoisie, yes. And w- on what basis do the bourgeoisie arrive? On the basis, what's their philosophy? What are their beliefs? What are they... What... On what are they going to found the new society? On what system? (whispering) Basically liberalism. It's, it's, uh, say, if you want to say it in one word, liberalism. And then what happens to the pe- what happens to the middle class that set up liberalism? They get undercut. They get? Cut down. Undercut by? The lower class. The lower class, who, and why, and h- on what basis do the lower class manage to undercut the middle class? What accusing finger do the lower class point at the middle class? Gregory's sick? They grow bored of them . That's, that's the bottom of it. In other words, the, the accusation leveled at the middle class is, all they want is swimming pools and comfort. I mean, there wasn't, there weren't swimming pools then, but that's the equivalent. All they want is a qu- a sum- a, a comfortable, uh, secure life for themselves. It's selfish, it's materialistic, and are the lower class basically right? Yes. There's, there's altogether too much truth in their accusation. Because of what's true in their accusation, you have the rise of? What, what new philosophy, following on liberalism, does the lower class bring with it in its revolt against the middle class? What's the new system that rises to the top? Socialism. Socialism, that's right. And, uh, together with socialism? Close on the heels of socialism, if you like, communism. That's it. So, uh, it's, it's all one gi- it's one gigantic process of breaking down the old hierarchical Christendom. That's what it all is. And the middle class establish themselves comfortably and they think, they think they're secure, but, um, there's a very interesting, uh, thing said about that by Louis Veuillot. Louis Veuillot was a, a top-class French Catholic journalist. He was a genuine Catholic, Louis Veuillot. He was the real McCoy, as opposed to these liberals. He was very anti-liberal. He hated liberals. Louis Veuillot. I'm running out of gas. (drops pen) V-E-U-I-L-L-O-T, Veuillot. And, uh, he, he said that he... He says somewhere, I, I... Somebody, I think, gave me, somebody maybe g- one of you maybe have given me this quote or somebody else gave it to me, how he says he, as a Catholic, tried to defend the middle class, tried to defend them not in what, what they got... Uh, 'cause the middle class is, is, is a mixture, it's an uneasy mixture of the Old World and the New World.... they're neither communist nor are they Catholic. They're sort of somewhere in between, like many, many, many, many people today. They're somewhere in between. And Louis Veuillot tries to come to their defense in everything that they still have that's Catholic, and they're not interested. Why are they not interested? Why are they not interested? Darby? They might need to sacrifice (inaudible) In... Be- because Louis Veuillot will want them- To become Catholic. ... to go back to being fully Catholic. "Ah, that we don't want." So, so they won't listen to Veuillot so the result is they're swept away. They're destroyed and they're swept away by communism, so to speak. So, so, uh, the breakdown of order and meaning in the arts accompanies the breakdown of order and meaning in society, and it's following on the refusal... uh, the prolonged refusal of the source of all goodness, order, truth, and meaning, which is God. You can't throw out God indefinitely. You can't throw out God and expect to keep the consequences of God. The consequences will go with Him. And if you want... If you throw out God, you're going to have the devil, and the devil is gonna claim his rights and he's going to come s- s- he'll come... He'll infiltrate in, he'll work his way in, and the old world will be destroyed. Who from the seminary a little while ago... uh, s- so you haven't heard it recently, but in literature where is this breakdown quite graphically portrayed? In literature? Otello. Ah, yes, we haven't seen that in the seminary. Some of you in the seminary have seen. I don't... I don't remember how, how recently it was or who would remember. Otello? Uh, not... O- Otello is the 1880s, I think. Otello is not really a breakdown. T.S. Eliot? T.S. Eliot, yes. T.S. Eliot. And were you there for the... for the- Literature (?). Oh, okay. But then there was... It was taught in the seminary- (inaudible) On? Uh, Callanach and Wasteland. The Wasteland is the famous poem. The Wasteland. T.S. Eliot. Anybody remember the year of that poem? 1922. Well done. 1922. The Wasteland. It's a very famous... Um, T.S. Eliot was born and bred American and then went and settled in Europe, uh, but he came from St. Louis. The Wasteland is a... Uh, it's what it says. It's, it's a... It's... Nobody had ever... It's kind of, uh, cubism in poetry and kind of 12-tone music in poetry. It's a new kind of poetry, and it, it only bears a certain resemblance with any kind of poetry that's gone before, and that's in order to portray, to hold up the mirror to this dramatic breakdown, because you can't portray... T.S. Eliot must have said to himself, "I can't portray the chaos that there is today by writing beautiful and orderly sonnets, just like the poets always used to write, in a regular 14 lines, with regular lines, and with rhymes, and with rhythm. I can't do it." If there's... "If I... If I've got this chaos in front of me, I can only... Then it's going to make chaos of the verse." And that's sort of what it is. Only once you study it, you can see there's... There's... There is a shape and there is a sense to it. He's trying to make shape and make, make, make shape of this chaos that there is. This is 1922, which is years ago, and the world has staggered on since then. So... So, is the sound... is the music of The Sound of Music in 12-tone music? In twelve, twelve tone? No, it isn't. Does that mean it's orderly? You better not say so, obviously. (laughs) (laughs) What kind of order is it? What kind of order is The Sound of Music? It's schlock. (laughs) A schlock order, yes. Or a kitsch order, a trash order. Uh, it's... It is orderly, but in a... in a... in a superficial way. Th- there's... there's... there's... there's no real order behind it or beneath it. It's... It's sentimental, it's sticky, it's slushy. It's not genuine. It's for sure and certain not genuine, and, um, that's... So... All right. Uh, that... Uh, cubism. So cubism was the... one of those schools of modern art, uh, a little whi- a little way before the First World War. There's a very famous picture of Picasso called Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. Anyone know the date of that? The... The Young Ladies of Avignon. It's a picture of four or five young women with not very much clothing on, but it's not, uh, as... like any of the classical pictures of them. It's... It's... It's sort of... It's very influenced by cubism. It's a famous picture. It's very influenced by cubism. The... The ladies are being cut up in sort of sharp geometrical shapes. It's... It's... There's something cold and sort of geometrical. It's... It's very effective and it's ve- it's... and it's, uh, very modern. Oh, is it beautiful? Oof, that's another question. But, uh, that's... The- the... Uh, any of you know that picture? Any of you happen to know that... Les Demoiselles D'Avignon? Hands up those who know Les Demoiselles D'Avignon? A few of you do, yes. Yeah.... you know. It's not, I don't think you can say it's pornographic. It's not pornographic, but, uh, it, it's, it made a, quite a sensation at the time because, uh, still most of the painters in 1907, 1908, they were producing paintings in the normal classical objective style. And then here comes this dramatic, shocking, completely original new kind of presentation. So, but that's the way art went. Picasso once said, I forget, uh, how he said it, but he said something like, uh, he said more or less, "I know what I do is trash, but it's what the people like. I, this is what the bourgeoisie like." See, it sells. Why do the bourgeoisie like? Why does the middle class like this kind of thing which is going to destroy them? Because they do. Because they don't want (inaudible) together? Yes. Yes, that's for sure. That's for sure. They don't want what would make demands of them to quit their selfish and comfortable way of life. Above all, selfish. Darby? Because they were told (inaudible) Uh, yes and no. That's not all of it, because they could be told a number of those things and they wouldn't necessarily buy it. I think Picasso said it. Because they were made (inaudible)? Uh, I don't... I, I suppose there's a, there's a certain in- instinct for disorder in the bourgeoisie, yes. That you can say. Because the (inaudible) past time. Yes. Yes. There's an instinct for disorder. They're refusing God, so they're bound to go towards disorder, that's for sure. They can't... nobody can stand still. But why do they go for... why do they like Picasso, who's stabbing them and jabbing them all the time and telling them they're jerks? Why do they like being told they're jerks? That's that... Why does the middle class like this avant-garde art? Shiroa? They want things to change? Um, I don't think so. I don't think that's it. I don't think that's it. They're jaded. They're jaded, and this avant-garde stuff which jabs them and stabs them gives them a feeling that they're alive. It's like somebody who's lost his sense of taste and needs sharp, sharp curry in order to feel any taste at all. That's why, that's the reason why they like Stravinsky, why they like Picasso, The Rite of Spring music, uh, Stravinsky's Rite of Spring music. Anything that... uh, that's why a lot of these people like jazz, uh, over here in the United States. Why do people like jazz? Why do the white people go for this black music? Why do the white people go for the black music? Uh, and that's Elvis Presley and so on. Come on, somebody. The same reason (inaudible). Yeah, because the white way of life is grinding down. The white way of life, the white values, nobody really believes in them any longer. The white values, truth, decency, honor, God, religion, country, blech. Whereas, you know, rum-pa-rum-pa-rum. I mean, getting a feel like an animal, at least, you know, there's a bit of vi- animal vitality. And of course, the blacks are good at animal vitality. I mean, I'm not saying it's all they're good at, but they're good at that. And, uh, they're that much... So the, the whites turn to the blacks to give them a sort of shot of life, so that they can start jerking back to life again. Th- that's how degraded the whites have become. Why are the whites so degraded? Three, three, three-word Latin proverb, which a lot of you know, if not all of you. Why are the whites so degraded? Summers? No. No. Well, that replies in all- (laughs) That applies in all circumstances, all times, everywhere. (laughs) Ager securesse. Corruptio optima pessima. The corruption of the best is the worst. These, these people who once were the privileged carriers of Catholic civilization, they've gone godless, they've gone crisis, they've gone materialistic. They're being punished for their apostasy. They're... they don't want to turn back to God. Then they will, they will turn to all kinds of devils in order to continue to look for any kind of meaning in existence. And of course, rock turns to the devils big time. Satanism is flooding back and so on. So, all right, s- verse 16. Uh, the four square is the four cardinal virtues. I think I said that. Um, and, uh, the length thereof is as great as the breadth. In other words, the four virtues are cultivated in a balanced way, in an even way, as great as in an even way. There's no distortion. "He measured the city with a golden reed for 12,000 furlongs, so the length of line and the breadth were both equal."12,000 is 12 times 1,000. 12 is the doctrine of the apostles. 1,000 is perseverance. And so 12,000... And they should secure the government for 12,000 furlongs. Um, 12,000 furlongs is all those pers- all- all those men persevering in the faith. (pause) And the length is the cardinal virtues, the four cardinal virtues. And then we have the length and the height and the breadth thereof are equal. These are the three theological virtues. (pause) The length is faith connecting the long distance between creator and creature. (pause) Height is hope lifting us to the heights. (pause) Breadth is dilative, D-I-L-A-T-I-V-E, dilative charity. What is to dilate, Daniel? To dilate, what does it mean? To expand. Yes, to broaden, to open. Um, to broaden, to open. Dilative charity, what do you think that means? Dilative charity. Expansive charity, what do you think that means? Hoffman? Make a lot of things - No. Mr. Dave? The one which goes out from the person's virtue- Right, expands the heart. It broadens the heart. Charity broadens the heart. Broadens the heart to open it on God and to open it on all men. So the length, the height, and the faith are the three theological virtues. Uh, "And he measured the wall thereof 144 cubits, the measure of a man, which is of an angel." Um, the wall is Christ. He measured the wall thereof. The wall is Christ. The cubits are- is the works of Christ on Earth. (pause) The works of Christ on Earth. 144 is 100, meaning purity of intention. I don't know why. 100, purity of intention. Maybe I can find that. (pause) It doesn't say why. I don't know why 100 is purity of intention. 40 is penance. No problem there. Number of days in Lent, number of days our Lord in the desert. 40 is penance. 4 is the cardinal virtues. (pause) Um, it is the measure of man, which is of an angel. The measure of a man is the measure that every man must seek to achieve if he wishes to be incorporated in Christ or go to Heaven. The measure of man, meaning the measure that every man must seek to achieve if he wishes to be incorporated in Christ. Which is of an angel, because any man who makes it to Heaven will be replacing a fallen angel. He will be taking place in an angelic hierarchy.But notice Chaloner's note, "The measure of man, i.e. according to the measure of men and used by the angel." That's a different understanding. (laughs) I prefer this one, but, uh, you can see that it's not as though there's one and only one possible interpretation of, uh, the verses of the Apocalypse. They can be interoperated in all kinds of ways. Verse 18, "And the building of the wall was of... And the building of the wall thereof was of jasper stone, but the city itself pure gold, like the clear glass." Uh, the building of the wall, that's then Christ, out of jasper stone. Christ's humanity, the humanity of Christ is through and through firm and green in the sense of flourishing, alive and flourishing, a perpetual springtime of life and beauty and freshness and vigor. Uh, but the city there are, the city itself pure gold like the clear gar- glass. The city is the mass of the elect, the mass of the saved souls, the mass of the elect who are translucent, shining through with the love of God. The glass is the shining through and the gold is the love of God. The city itself pure gold like the clear glass. It's difficult for us to imagine obviously a combination of golden glass. Gold is not transparent. Glass is not golden. Glass has no color. Obviously he is described using human things to describe a heavenly vision. Gold is charity and the glass is the, uh, transparency, the tran- it, translucency. Translucent is another Latin word, obviously shining through, trans-luce, luci- lucio, lucere. At any rate, looks. Uh, 19, "And the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper, the second sapphire, the third a chalcedony, the fourth an emerald," and then through to Verse 20, "The twelfth an amethyst, the fifth sardonyx, the sixth sardius, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth a topaz, the tenth a chrysoprasus, the eleventh a jacinth, the twelfth an amethyst." Again, you can imagine the, the commentators assume that though, the, the list means something. It's not just there for nothing. So the precious stones are literally the beauty of the heavenly city. The precious stones of 19 and 20 are literally the beauty and variety of the heavenly city, the variety of color, variety of shape, like a collection of jewels. Mystically, the foundation of the walled city were adorned with all manner of precious stones. (coughs) The found- mystically, the foundation is the patriarchs and apostles. The wall, which has meant, uh, Christ, uh, is now the wall of the church, here the doctors, bishops, and preachers who rest upon the patriarchs and apostles. Like a wall rests on foundations, the church's doctors, bishops, and preachers rest upon the patriarchs and apostles. So the wall here is the doctors, bishops, and preachers. The precious stones are their virtues. The, the foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with all manner of precious stones. These 12 stones represent the virtues. So this is again, th- this is the mystic meaning. Jasper is faith, dark green, because the virtues go out from the faith.Without the faith, it's impossible to please God. The faith of Abraham is the- uh, the basis of the, um, vocation of the Israelites. The faith of Peter is the cornerstone of the New Testament. So Abraham and Peter, who are at the basis of the Old Testament and the New Testament. Jasper is faith. The sapphire, which is one of the... What are the four precious stones as opposed to semi-precious? Does anybody know? Pete, do you know? (coughs) Yes, I think that's right. The ruby, the sapphire, the emerald, the diamond. That's right. I think that's right. Anybody agree with that? I think so. Yeah. And the other stones are all, uh, semi-precious. They're known as semi-precious. The sapphire, then, is one of the precious stones colored blue. Um, sometimes called lapis lazuli. It represents hope, hope for a clear blue heaven. Uh, the third stone is chalcedony, which is a variety of ruby, deep red in color, luminous in the dark, charity. Uh, charity is, um, luminous in the dark, um, in the sense that it seeks humility. It seeks to be in the dark, and it shines in humility. Uh, the emerald is, of course, green. Uh, a continual... The green of a continual springtime, virginity. Faith hope, charity, emerald, virginity. Verse 20, the fifth stone is sardonyx or onyx. (coughs) Uh, often black and white stripes. Um, bec-... They think very lowly of themselves, but God thinks very highly of them. They think very lowly of themselves, black. God thinks very highly of them, white. So the stripes, uh, represent, uh, humility. The sardonyx or the onyx represents humility. Or (clears throat) the, the blackness of temptations and the whiteness of their resistance. (clears throat) Black and white, humility. Next, the, the next three stones are the active life, sardius, chrysolite, and beryl. And we'll look at those tomorrow.