Various stones, significance of onyx, humility. Sardius, colored blood red, martyrdom, patience. Patior patis passus sum, knowing how to suffer, patientia. Uh, chrysolite, sparking yellow, brilliant apostolic activity. A- apostolic activity. Beryl is a warm pale green, the works of mercy. Uh, you certainly don't have to learn all this, obviously, but it's interesting. Uh, then topaz is a brilliant gold, the most sparkling of all, the, uh, contemplative life. (coughs) Chrysoprasus, it's Greek obviously, chruso is Greek, is gold. Chrusos, Chrysostom was golden mouth. Saint John Chrysostom was the golden mouth. Patron of preachers. Chrysoprasus is a green gold color, the desire of Heaven. Topaz is the contemplative life because it's, um, it's, it out... It is when caught in the sunlight, it out-dazzles all of the other stones. Uh, chrysopras, green color, green gold, the desire of Heaven. The ardent desire of eternal life which follows on contemplation. The desire to- to be dissolved in order to be with Christ. Philippians 1:23. Jacinth, 11, jacinth is red gold, colored red gold, the charity of contemplation. (coughs) And finally, amethyst is colored violet, a flower hidden and perfumed, the virtue of modesty. "She dwelt amidst untrodden ways, beside the springs of dove. A maid whom there were none to praise, and very few to love. Like violet 'neath a mossy stone, half-hidden from the eye. Or like a star when only one is shining in the sky. She dwelt unknown and few could know when Lucy ceased to be. But now she's in her grave and, oh, what a difference to me. No motion has she now." Um, "A slumber did my spirit seal. I had no human fears. She seemed a thing that could not feel the touch of earthly years. No motion has she now, no force. She neither hears nor sees. Rolled round in Earth's diurnal course with rocks and stones and trees." Anybody? Wordsworth. Wordsworth is right, yeah. Those are two of the Lu- Lucy... They're called the Lucy Poems. Lucy was some lass that Wordsworth must have... I think, I don't know the story about Wordsworth but he, he was, um, one of the English romantic poets. La- l- wa- Lucy was a lass that he must've gotten to know up at the Lake District. The Lake District is a very beautiful corner of England up the northwest of England, just beneath the Scottish border. It's ca- though it's full of tourists in the wrong time of year. But at that time, it was fairly empty and it, the, uh... Coleridge also was up there writing, writing poets. "Like violet 'neath a mossy stone half-hidden from the eye."... uh, "or like a star when only one is shining in the sky." "She dwelt unknown and few could know when Lucy ceased to be. But now she's in the grave and, oh, the difference to me." Um, "Rolled round in earth's diurnal course." What does that mean, "diurnal course"? Lester? And what happened to her? "A slumber did my spirit seal. I had no human fears. She seemed a thing that could not feel the touch of earthly years. No motion..." It's the last of the... If I tell you, it's the last of the Lucy poems. "No motion has she now, no force. She neither hears nor sees. Rolled round in earth's diurnal course with rocks and stones and trees." Circular. She's, uh, going back to dust and then to . Not quite. Not quite. No. No. She, she is doing that but, uh... (laughs) A diet for worms, as Hamlet says, but, uh, she's feeding the worms. "Why nothing but to show that a king may go a process through the guts of a beggar." (laughs) Um, uh, diurnal. Anybody? D-I-U-R-N-A-L. Well, when you see the background it's . Well... (laughs) Well, all right, yes. Ex- ex- except you'd expect... We call it... It's c- c- usually called a nocturnal owl because the n- the owl... Nocturnal owl. So diurnal is the opposite of nocturnal. And, uh, the... I've got an office which is called a diurnal because it's l- from lords to compline without matins. Matins is during the night. All of the other hours are during the day, so it's called a diurnal, D-I-U-R-N-A-L. "Rolled round in earth's diurnal course with rocks and stones and trees." What do you think that means then? It's not... He's not strictly right, but uh... "Rolled round in earth's diurnal course." (laughs) Surely. Rolled round in earth's diurnal course. "No motion has she now, no force. She neither hears nor sees. Rolled round in earth's diurnal course." So she's, she's six feet under and she's not only pushing up daisies, but she's also spinning with the rotation of the earth- (laughs) ... once a day. "Rolled round in earth's diurnal course with rocks and stones and trees." Uh, that's, uh, Wordsworth's... William Wordsworth. W-O-R-D-S-W-O-R-T-H. He was born in 1770. He died in 1850. Uh, just before the French Revolution, he went over to France, and he wro- he was all excited about the revolution. He really believed in the revolution. "Blissed was it on that dawn to be alive. But to be young was very heaven." But then he wised up. As he grew up, he wised up and he realized that the Re- French Revolution wasn't such a good thing. Uh, but his, his later poetry is nothing like as, um, famous as his earlier poetry. He sort of went... I've not read what he... Nobody... I don't think any... Practically nobody reads his... what he wrote later, but... (laughs) He became a very sort of respectable and stodgy, uh, gentleman. He had a disciple who became a very fam- a very famous Catholic priest. Anybody? A convert, a convert who became a famous Catholic priest. Very famous. So famous none of you know him. (laughs) About that time. Anybody? Jenkins? (laughs) All right. Uh... (laughs) Okay. You bit your tongue. All right. Uh, Faber. Father Faber. Father Faber began life as a poet. Um, and that's the... What, uh, ch- Charles Cullen calls the two sides of romanticism. Romanticism has an upside and it has a downside. The upside is that it's reopening towards something more than just reason. It's opening up to something transcendent. Uh, the downside of romanticism is that it's, it's... There's an opening for God and, and so the disciple of the romantic poet goes all the way and becomes a Catholic priest. But the downside of romanticism is, is of course it's, um, it's just feelings and, uh, selfish- selfishness and feelings. My self, my feelings. And the, the, the, the, the descendant of romanticism in that sense is rock and roll. So romanticism is a two-edged sword. It can go towards God or it can go away from God. Both things. It's ambiguous. All right. Then, uh, the last stone is a violet, uh, which is... stands for modesty. "Like violet 'neath a mossy stone, half-hidden from the eye." Typic- violets are, are small and they are hidden, so. And they got a beautiful perfume. There are not many flowers that have a perfume. Uh, roses, obviously. Vi- violets. What others? Um, uh, lavender. Lavender, which is not really a flower. Carnation. Carnation has a, has a scent, does it? Lilacs. Lilacs? Yes, lilac. That's right. Yes, lilacs have. Not many. Um, then, uh, verse 21. Uh, "And the 12 gates are 12 pearls, one to each, and every se- every several gate was of one several pearl. And the street of the city was pure gold, as it were, transparent glass."Um, the 12 gates are 12 pearls. Um, all 12 apostles, the 12 gates, we've seen as the 12 Apostles of Jenkins. Can you check on this and we hope to Is it the same 12 stones? It is. (inaudible) And where do you find the list of the 12 stones in the, what's it called? The Exodus? 39. 39. I don't know. Uh, Exodus. What's it called? The Urim and the Thummim. The Urim and the Thummim. What was it called? The pectoral thing on the he- on the high priest? The Ju- Pectoralis? No. It's not called a pectoral. There's another name for it. Rational. Rational maybe, yes. That's right. Exodus, you say 39? 10. Because it's not quite the same, no. Carbuncle? Carbuncle and (inaudible) Ligurious? Agate? Doesn't... It looks as if... It doesn't look as if it's quite the same. I don't know. I don't know. Domonion doesn't mention the 12 stones of the, um, rational. What pope wore a rational? Damned good, you know? The era? All of six, yeah. All of six. Were the Jewish high priests sitting around his name? Yep. Yep. They photographed something with it. The man was mad. Um, so all 12 apostles had all of these 12 virtue... had all of these virtues, but each of them had one in particular. Every several gate, each of the several gates was a one, several pearl had one particular of the many pearls. For instance, which apostle was faith? Peter, yes. Peter's faith and so on. So the 12 gates were of all, all the stones were in all the gates, but each gate had one particular pearl. Each apostle had one particular virtue. The street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass. We've really already seen that. The street is the mass of the elect, full of charity, and of transparent integrity. You saw that above. He said, uh, "Shining with the love of God," last time. Shining clearly with the love of God here, integrity, integrity. The sapphires and port, because it was wrapped up to the se- third heaven. Chalcedony is, um, Saint Andrew because of his br- passion. Emerald, virginity, Saint John. Onyx, uh, humility, Saint Philip. Uh, sardius, Saint James, the first martyr, patience. Chrysolitous, uh, apostolic activity, Bartholomew, because of his eloquence. Beryl, works of mercy, Saint Thomas. Topaz, uh, Saint Matthew, the contemplative life. Um, chrysoprasus, Saint, uh, desire of heavens, Saint Jude. Hyacinth, Saint Simon, charity of contemplation. Amethyst, Saint Matthias. Um, yeah. Uh, the, uh, place of the city, the street of the city is the, the mass of the lesser saints and the less elect. They are gold because of their charity and like transparent glass because there's no more self-love or duplicity. Guile, there's no more guile or self-love. Selfishness or guile. 22, "And I saw no temple therein for the Lord God Almighty is the temple thereof and the lamb." Uh, no temple. All heaven bathes in its inhabitants in the real presence of God, in the beatific vision. You don't have a church and then places that aren't church. Everywhere is like church with the real presence and the vision of God. There's no distinction in heaven between secular and profane. You don't have to keep any swing doors shut.All heaven... bays its inhabitants in the presence, in the real presence of God in, and in the beatific vision. "I saw no temple therein," because it's all a temple. "For the Lord God Almighty is the temple hereof, and the Lamb." Also, in the vision of Christ's sacred humanity, which is the supreme temple. The whole of heaven is a temple, but of course, the supreme temple of God is the humanity in which Christ especially indwells by hypostatic union. John 2:19-21, "Destroy this temple and in three days again I will build it." John 2:19-21. Verse 19 and verse 21. "The Lord God Almighty is the temple hereof and the Lamb." The whole of heaven is God's dwelling place, and particularly the humanity of Christ. 23, "And the city hath no need of the sun nor of the moon to shine in it, for the glory of God hath enlightened it and the Lamb is the lamp thereof." The sun... The city has no need of the sun. The sun is knowledge from reason, knowledge through or from reason, which is often clouded and half benighted, half-hidden in night, often hidden by clouds and half of the time hidden by night. It's knowledge from reason, which is a fairly defective knowledge, a fairly insufficient knowledge. Fairly limited knowledge is best to say. Uh, "For the glory of God hath enlightened it, and the Lamb is the lamp thereof." In heaven, God will illuminate intelligences directly. Prima Pars, question 89. What's it called in Latin? Uh... The Lumen Gloriae. The Lumen Gloriae. The human intellect is, uh... Is the human intellect natural or supernatural? Sick. Yes, the human i- the human intellect belongs to our nature. It's therefore natural. If you put the beatific vision in a human intellect direct, what happens? It kind of puts a camp. All the fuses blow. (laughs) Th- the poor little human intellect simply can't take it. The overflow of light, the, the voltage is so high that the fuses simply blow. All right. So, you need to plug into the human intellect an adapter which will then be able to take the beatific vision. And that adapter that you- (laughs) ... the adapter that you plug in is the Lumen Gloriae, all right? The Lumen Gloriae then enables you to take the beatific vision, 'cause the beatific vision of course is a vision of God Himself. But there, uh, there has to be something in between the hu- the h- human intellect and God Himself for the human intellect to be able to see God, and that is the Lumen Gloriae, the Light of Glory. Uh, so God Himself will be the, um, light of the intellect. "The glory of God hath enlightened it, and the Lamb is the lamp thereof." And the brilliant... Christ will eclipse the sun even if, even seven times brighter. Isaiah 30:26. Uh, find that quotation. Isaiah 30:26. "And the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and as the light of the sun shall be seven-fold... And the light of the sun shall be seven-fold as the light of seven days, in the day when the Lord shall bind up the wound of his people and shall heal the stroke of their wound." Um, so, the... Christ will eclipse the sun be- even seven times brighter than the sun. Isaiah 30:26. The br- the brilliance of Christ's humanity, hi- Christ's risen humanity in heaven. Verse 24, "And the nations shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honor into it." Uh, after the darkness of the faith, Catholics now walk like in the day, like in daytime. After the nighttime of the faith, now I see in enigmity. How do you translate that in English? I see as in a puzzle? Corinthians 13 was it. I see as in, as in darkness they say.... as in a dark glass. I think that's right, yes. Corinthians says, "Now I see as in a dark glass but then..." Uh, Corinth- 1 Corinthians 13. Then even as I am s- now I know but, "But then I should be know as even as I am known." Hold on. "Now I see as in a glass darkly." Um, "For now..." That's it. "We see now through a glass in a dark manner, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I should know even as I am known." That's Paul describing the darkness of faith. Faith is imperfect. Faith and, and hope in this life carry an intrinsic imperfection, whereas charity there's no imperfection, even in this life. But faith has an intrinsic imperfection which is why faith and hope will be done away with in heaven, but charity will continue. Therefore, uh, here you have, uh, the, um... The nation shall walk in the light of it, of the hu- in the light of the humanity of Christ. After the darkness... after walking in the darkness of faith, the relative darkness of faith in this life, the Catholics will be walking in heaven like in daylight, in the daylight of Christ's humanity. The kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honor into it. The kings are the church leaders who will seek and procure only the glory of God. They will be- no longer be looking for their own glory from their... everything they've done for the church. They will only be looking for the glory of the heavenly city. So the, the, the peoples, the mass, the masses will be walking like in daylight, and the leaders will be, uh, seeking only the glory of God. 25. And the gates thereof shall not be shut by day, for there shall be no night there. Um, there are... In heaven, there's no need to shut gates. What do you think that means? In heaven, no need to shut gates. Portugal? (Inaudible). Against who? The, the ? Against heretics. The, uh, heretics and thieves, heretics, freethinkers. The church is defending primarily against heretics. So the, the... And who... What is the... Where do you see in the church this idea of shutting out, which is a idea that's lost with Vatican II? The true church has definitely an idea of shutting out. Anybody? The porters. ? The porters. Well, you see... Yes, you see it there in the ar- the... Uh, yes. Yes, that's right. They're, they're bouncers. If you read the Latin, it calls them bouncers. (laughing) They're really bouncers, you know. They bounce out of the church all of those who don't belong there. It's true. Read the Latin. Uh, then where else? (Theater production)? Uh, yes, yes, but in the... Where else? (Theatrical performance)? Yes. Of course, that's no longer particularly significant. Peter's keys. Keys of Peter to lock the door and, and, um, what you bind will be bound, what will you loose will be loosened. Uh, you will shut and nobody will open, you will open and nobody will shut. Uh, where is that? That's in the Advent antiphons, isn't it? Um, does anybody remember? Isn't it one of the Advent antiphons? O Clavis. O Clavis, surely. Uh, and where is that from? Does anybody remember? Is it Isaiah? I can't remember the original quotation on which that antiphon is based. They're all, all as antiphons are soaked in scripture. Uh, well, in any case, that idea of, of shutting, shutting out heretics, shutting out, excommunicating, pushing out people who don't belong, people who've rendered themselves unfit to belong to the church, you push them out. Uh, here in heaven, there's no need for that. That's why there's no shutting in, no- Isaiah 22:22. Oh, no. What does it say there? "And I will lay the key of the house of David... He shall open and none shall shut, he shall shut and none shall open." Exactly, or Isa- Isaiah 22:22. Well done. That's it. Isaiah 22:22, on which that Advent antiphon is built. Here in heaven, there's no need for that. So, uh, there are no thieves, heretics or freethinkers. That's, that's all... They're all in hell. There's no night even. There'll be no sleeping, no alarm clocks, no th- no 13 pings. (laughing) It's gone up. Who put it up one? (laughing) One or two. Used to be at 12:00, and I think it was 11:00, and now it's 13:00. Oh. (laughing) Who else counts them? Does somebody count them every morning? (laughing)Uh, no night. The humanity of Christ is a steady flood of light. The humanity of Christ is a steady flood of light, 24 hours a day. That's what they... that was a punishment at Waco. They kept blazing lights on it right through the night. And then also anybody? It's a punishment only the 20th century could dream of. (laughing) What else did they do to the poor people in Waco? Finally, of course they burnt and shot and killed them. It sounds appalling. But before then, Hoffman? Played rock music. They played rock music right (laughing) through the night. Poor devils must have gone crazy. Uh, blasting rock music and blazing light. That's not exactly heaven. But here you've got the, uh... in heaven, in heaven the qu- the 24 hours a day light is of course glory rather than a, um, a suffering obviously. There will be no night there. 25. The gates thereof shall not be shut by day for there shall be no night there. And they shall bring... of course gates used to be shut at night. The gates of a city used to be shut at night. And the gates thereof shall not be shut... for there shall be no night... and they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it. 26. The glory and honor of the nations is the elect, virtuous and upright. For our glory is this, the testimony of our conscience that in simplicity of heart and sincerity of God and not in carnal wisdom, but in the grace of God we have conversed in this world, and more abundantly towards you. The elect, virtuous, and upright. The glory and honor of the nations. The glory and honor of any nation, if you stop and think about it, is- is Catholics. If you stop and think. Especially it's- it's the consecrated souls in any nation. 27. There shall not enter into it anything defiled or that worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they that are written in the book of life of the lamb. Uh, the defiled is sins of the heart. There will be no sins of the heart. Or that worketh abomination. Sins of action. Lie, sins of word. All of these will be inexorably barred entry. All sin, of thought, word, or deed... of thought, deed, or word will be ruthlessly excluded. Any questions on 21? Very beautiful, a vision of heaven. Description of heaven. 22. So the ones in two parts. (paper rustling) 22. The heavenly Jerusalem. Um... do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do. What was the first part? Glorification of the saints. Yes, I think that's right. Yeah. Glorification of the saints. The splendors of the city, of heavenly Jerusalem, of the heavenly city, and now the 12 fruits. Then there's an . So that's 21 and that's 22. This runs now from verse one, the 12 fruits, until verse five. Verses six to the end. In verse chapter 21, the split was at verses eight and nine. One, eight, nine to... we just had 27. Was it 27? Chapter 22. And he showed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb."In the midst of the street thereof and on both sides of the river was the tree of life bearing 12 fruits, yielding its fruits every month and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there should be no curse anymore, but the throne of God under the land shall be in it and his service shall serve him. And they shall see his face and his name shall be on their foreheads. And night shall be no more and they shall not need the light of the lamp nor the light of the sun because the Lord God shall enlighten them and they shall reign forever and ever." Um, (clears throat) he showed me a river. The river is divine grace, peace, joy, life, love, coming out of God. Coming out of God, (exhales sharply) that is to say, th- the Holy Ghost proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb, the Father and the Son, proceeding from the Father and the Son. So the river is like the Holy Gho- divine grace at- uh, appropriated to the Holy Ghost, proceeding from God and the Lamb. As, uh, like crystal, clear as crystal with the fir- uh, firm and transparently pure, both firm and transparently pure like crystal. In the Church Militant, the river is the waters of baptism and it flows only inside the city because extra ecclesiam nullo salus. The Feenians think we don't believe that. It's foolish. Of course, we believe it. Only we don't exaggerate by denying any baptism other than out of water. It's fatal to exaggerate. Father Feeney exposed... Uh, a magnificent anti-liberal. He really was very fine, but he exposed himself. He, he, um, invited Rome to destroy him by exaggerating on doctrine and that just gave Rome all they needed to destroy him. The liberals in Rome... It may well have been the liberals, but... Well, it, uh, I mean, it might well have been the liberals that were behind the condemnation, but the condemnation itself is simply Catholic doctrine. It says that you can't say there's no baptism of water or you can't, you can't say there's no baptism of desire or blood. It's just, it's just not what the Church has always taught. The Church has never defined baptism of water, uh, ba- baptism of desire or blood. It's never defined, it's never made it a dogma of faith, but it's certainly always taught it. The Feenianites are silly to say the Church hasn't taught it, or Church doctors. And they say, "Well, of course they've taught it." It's silly, but they are obsessed with finding a strong way of smashing liberals. But it's foolish. It's, it's materialistic. They just, they grab hold of either there's water and there's baptism, or there's no water and there's no baptism. It's simple, it's clear, and it's dumb. (laughs) A lot of things that are simple and clear are dumb. I mean, you know, i- i- doctrines, you, you can't exaggerate. And Father Feeney, by exaggerating like that, he gave Rome all he needed to destroy him, even if it was the liberals in Rome that were behind the condemnation. Oh, but the condemnation is actually Catholic doctrine. It's a shame because he was right in so many words. Jenkins? If he never did come then I'm not too sure about it. I mean, I suppose you could say he came because of the housetops, right? By reading between the lines. Well, don't trust the- You, ah, you can't trust what you read in the housetops because the, the, the- But they're saying that he didn't show up for that one. Well, that, that, that may be, but in, in Denzil Schonmetz you've got the rea- the, the text of his con- which is doctrinal. And it's not just because he didn't show up, it's because he made an error of doctrine. He was in error in doctrine. You can't do that. The great, the great advantage of Archbishop Lefebvre, Archbishop Lefebvre never slipped up in doctrine. You can listen now at lunchtime, they're trying to trip him up. They tried to trip him up. They went through all his works with a fine-tooth comb. Suddenly, they all dug out... Rome, they all dug out their old, old manuals of theology, which of course they'd all, they'd all thrown away because of Vatican II. But suddenly, in order to condemn the Archbishop, they dug them all out. They went through with a fine-tooth comb and suddenly they all remembered... For the sake of condemning the Archbishop, they remembered all their theology for the purposes, you know, just for a few moments in order... But they couldn't find any. And he was, he knew his theology and he never departed from theology. That was his great strength. And it was Father Feeney's fatal weakness to depart from Catholic teaching. And now the result is you can't depart from doctrine. The result is now that the Feenianites are making a nuisance of themselves in many of our chu- chapels and churches. They're a darn nuisance.Because subspecie boni, under the appearance of good, under the appearance of being strong anti-liberals, here they come and say, "Outside the church, there's no salvation! And the society suffices, you don't believe it, we do! We are Catholics and you're liberals!" I mean, come on, come on, come on. But it looks simple. It's simple, you know? No water, no baptism, no church, no salvation. Oh. It's, it's materialistic. It's making, it's making the boundary between the church and the non-church purely materialistic. Water. Uh, yes, yes, our Lord attached salvation to water. Yes, he did, but not exclusively so that he never allowed himself an exception. That's foolishness. It's, it's common sense that there could be exceptions, that in a normal run of life, could be exceptions, yeah. God is not tied to his own sacramentals. He is, well, he is tied to it, but not in such a way that he cannot allow himself any exceptions. That's foolishness, foolishness. But the Feeneyites are foolish, but they're, they're the dark, they're a nuisance because they seem to have very Catholic principles and they're more Catholic than the Catholics. You know, that's a, that's the typical story of exaggerating the opposite direction. If you can't get somebody to, you know, you knock him over once, you knock him over again, he comes back up. You knock him over a third time, well, he, now he's getting wise, so he, he leans over to, to, so that when he- (laughs) ... the devil comes, uh, won't go. What does the devil do? He goes round the back, boom. It's dead easy. (laughs) So you, you, people that are so strong against the liberals that argh- (laughs) ... you just come round the back and make them exaggerate in anti-liberalism and they fall into the, in the, into the, into the opposite error. But the op- (laughs) ... uh, funnily enough, opposite errors have a way of rejoining themselves, which is why the Feeneyites team up again with liberals. Anybody? What kind of liberals do Feeneyites, are Feeneyites liable to team up with? Masons. Yes. Who are? What? Uh... (laughs) More obviously, if they're not, if they're not Masons, they are most of them, at least- Americanists. ... Americanists. And Americanism is of course liberalism again. And so the, these Feeneyites were so strong against liberalism, they're back into Americanism. Uh, s- uh, those errors meet up. You know, you, if you, if you, if you fall, if you push too far away from one error, you'll come back to it through the back door. It's funny, but that's how it is, it's how it happens. So the, the truth is a, is a balance. It's not... The truth is, is not discovered by dividing, you know, the distance between two errors and affecting exactly the halfway point. The truth is not middlest, so to speak. But the truth is often in the middle of two errors, an error of excess and an error of defect. You don't find the truth by measuring off between the error and the defect, uh, between the excess and the defect. But, uh, there will often be, just like most, against obedience, most people sin by disobedience. But the, the false, the o-... the... that's a defect of obedience. The excess is false obedience or exaggerated obedience. And sure enough, exaggerated obedience, the Pope, the Pope, the Pope, you fall into disobedience. You, you, you disobey the whole Catholic Church by following modernism in the name of... by, by exaggerated obedience, you fall into disobedience. Exaggerated obedience and disobedience would join one another up, join hands again because they're both from the devil, and that's where the devil... So the devil gets you with, as the old song says, "If the left hand-" Doesn't get you- "... doesn't get you..." Schmid, could you sing it for us? (laughs) "If the left hand doesn't get you, then the right hand will." Right? Or, or the opposite. "If the right hand doesn't get you, then the left hand will." Yes. Okay. What song is that from? Uh... "I owe my soul to the company store." (laughs)