Chapter 8 is short, but difficult. Quite difficult. The trumpets, the first four trumpets preaching, uh, seven generations of preaching in the church. Um... The seven seals were, uh... Seven seals were like seven episodes in the history of the church, seven stages in the history of the church. Seven trumpets, seven generations of preaching in the church. Uh, the first was the apostles at the very beginning, apostles to the Jews if you like. Secondly, apostles to the Gentiles all over the world. Thirdly, the great doctors of the 4th century. And the fourth trumpet, doctors from the 4th century down to the Anti-Christ. Down to the period of the Anti-Christ. It's, it's not too easy. Uh, what verse were we on, verse 10? Yes. Uh, so first eight was the second angel. And the second trumpet. Verse 10, the third angel, the doctors of the 4th century... Which is the great generation of church doctors. Uh, and the, the third angel sounded the tr- his trumpet and there fell from the heaven a great star, burning like a torch. A great star is the heresiarchs, like Arius obviously, the leaders of heresy, the leaders of the heresies, the leading heretics. ARCH is a leader or a... So the, the... Third angel sounded, a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch. And it fell upon the third part of the rivers and fell upon the waters. And the name of the star is called Wormwood, and the third part of the waters became wormwood, and many men died because of, died of the waters because they were made bitter. Uh, the heresiarchs, burning like a torch. Not like burning, not like a serene star... but like a smoky torch burning out, burning itself out. They have their day of brilliance, like John Courtney Murray. He had his day of brilliance, but I'm told that even by... He died, John Courtney Murray was the writer of the Declaration of Religious Liberty, but... And he, when he got back to United States, he expected to be treated like a hero, but within a few years, a few years, he was passe. He was over and done with, he was finished. The revolution had left him a long way behind. The revolution had gone a long way further on and left him behind. Uh, you may still just a moment. Um, because the, that, you know, the schema of the... these are the conservatives. The conservatives at the each stage of the revolution. The conservatives that try to stop a revolution, to want the revolution to go, oh, so far and, and no further. Once they get it to their point, they want it then to level out and, and they make a new conservatism, a conservatism for this stage of the revolution. Well, here is the spirit of Vatican II. And there is the . You know, the Vatican II was just like all other revolutions. It was a th- a downward thrust with its own conservatism, like its own conservatism. Here is Ratzinger. Ratzinger is conservative of the revolution. And here is, uh, Kuhn, Hans Kuhn, who wants the revolution to keep. So, um... Uh, why did I mention that? Um, the letter against the spirit, the spirit and the letter of Vatican II. So when people, when the revolutionaries say, talk about the spirit of Vatican II is not just the Novus Ordo Mass, the spirit is a constantly changing mess. They're basically right. That was the spirit of Vatican II, and it's useless to try to hold up the letter of Vatican II against the spirit of Vatican II because the letter won't hold up. The letter wasn't designed to hold up. Uh, so th- in, in other words, the revolution, a famous proverb, "The revolution eats its own children." The revolution eats its own children. The revolution always generates a stage, another stage of the revolution and, but when it's used, it just rolls on. So John Courtney Murray, so heresiarchs, the leaders of the great heresies, they... John Courtney Murray expected to be treated like a hero, but within two years he was old, old hat. And he died, I think, in 1967. He died quite soon after. So the heresiarchs, they're brilliant for a short while and then they, they, they're like shooting star. They crash into the sea and that's it. That's the end of it. There's, um... So the third angel, "And there fell from the c- sky a great star burning like a torch."And it fell upon the third part of the rivers and upon the s- uh, upon the springs of water. Um, the r- the river's third part, the first part is the Old Testament, second part is the New Testament, and the third part is the Church Fathers. In other words, so the- the leaders of the heretics fell upon the Church Fathers. What does that, what does that mean here? Uh, the- the heretics pretended to accept Scripture, but they crashed into the interpretation of Scripture, the Church Fathers. And by crashing into the interpretation, of course, they pervert the sense of Scripture. So, uh, the third part are the rivers and waters. The rivers and waters are what give cl- cl- Catholics to drink. The heretics fall upon the third part of the waters, they don't fall directly upon the Old Testament or onto the New Testament, they fall upon the interpretation by the Church Fathers. By so doing, they poison the waters, and all, many Catholics die. So, the third part of the rivers is the, third part of the, of the rivers and the waters is the Church Fathers explaining and interpreting the Old and the New Testament. One, the Old Testament, two, the New Testament, three, the Church Fathers. So the third part is the Church Fathers, who get crashed into by the heretics, the- the leading heretics, the arch heretics. And thus the waters of Catholic piety are poisoned. The springs, the well springs of Catholic piety are poisoned. The interpretation of Scripture is poisoned. The modernists did exactly the same, at the time of Vatican II and before. They're poisoning Scripture. They're making it unreadable. So the well springs of Catholic piety are poisoned. Uh, the- the- the star of these heretics is called Absinthe, which is very bitter, because heresy is bitter. This star is called Absinthe because heresy- heresy is very bitter in its consequences. It's sweet on the tongue and poison in the stomach. Because Catholic truth can be rough on the tongue, but it's honey in the stomach. So, heresy is bitter, why, which is why the great star of heresy crashing into the waters is called Absinthe. And so a third part of the waters is turned into absinthe, that's the Church Fathers. And- and many men died of those waters, many Catholics perish from the poisoning of the living waters of tradition. Many Catholics perish if you poison the living waters of tradition, which is what the Protestants did, which is what the liberals do, which is what the neo-modernists have done. Many Catholics perish if you poison the living waters of tradition. And here I was quoting To Ratzinger, I didn't, I didn't lay out the arguments in detail and carefully, but I said to you that the, the book as a whole shows Ratzinger being formed by Catholic priests and Catholic professors who've allowed themselves to be far too much influenced by Protestant, Protestants, "scholars", "Scripture scholars". And those German Protestant Scripture scholars have done a lot of damage. There are very few, I think, so far as I know, there are very few English Scripture scholars of comparable power or clout. There are English Scripture scholars, but they're nothing like, I don't think they're anything like the Germans. Um, so, many Catholics perish, uh, that's the last, the end of chapter, Verse 11, because the living waters of tradition are poisoned with bitterness. You remember the, uh, wars, uh, the heresy gives rise to war. Protestantism is a classic case. Classic case. But prior to that, Arianism, I- I can't, I don't remember very well my history, but the history of that period, I've never known it very well, but the Arian heresy gave rise to fighting. (coughs) Yes. Yes, that's right. When Constantine died, the- the- the Roman Empire... Because of, and basically it was, I mean, one was on one side of the... Arians Yeah. Yeah, that's... So it was Arians against Christians? Yes, that's... Because religion, uh... Well, heresy is of the devil and the devil will never leave Christians in peace. And therefore, if the devil succeeds in getting a lot of people on his side, he's not gonna leave the Catholics in peace. There is gonna be war. The Catholics are gonna have to defend themselves. And that's the story of Protestantism. The Protestants wouldn't leave the Catholics alone.... the Catholics had to defend themselves. So it's, heresy means war 'cause the devil will use heretics to attack the Catholics. Uh, the fourth angel, verse 12. Doctors from the 4th century onwards, doctors from the 4th century down to the end times. So this, this fourth age goes all the way down to the end times. The fourth, a- angel sounded his trumpet and the third part of the sun was struck and the third part of the moon and the third part of the stars, so that the third part of them was obscured, darkened, and the third part of the day did not shine, and likewise the night. And I saw and I heard the voice of an eagle flying through the middle of the heaven saying with a great voice, "Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants on, upon the earth." Um, concerning the other voices, uh, (murmuring). How does, um... "I heard the voice of one eagle flying through the midst of the heaven saying with a loud voice, 'Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth,' by reason of the rest of the voices of three angels who are yet to sound the trumpet." So that's a little prelude saying how, how bad it's going to be, woe, woe, woe for the end times. But before the end times we have the fourth angel still. The fourth angel, the fourth, sa- sounded the trumpet. Again, this is a little tricky. Sun, moon, and stars are the prelates, bishops, nuncios, cardinals, the leaders. Prelate is a broad word of which, a broad, is a genus of which bishop is undoubtedly the most common species, but there are other species of prelate besides only bishops. Therefore, prelates, priests, and religious appointed to feed the flock, sun, moon, and stars. Prelates, priests, and religious appointed to feed the flock. So that the doctors down all of the intervening centuries from the fourth century to the end of the world sound their trumpet, sound the blast of Catholic preaching, and a whole lot of the prelates, priests, and religious are struck. What does that mean? S- uh, of these shepherds, let's use the word shepherds to include prelates, priests, and all of them. Of these shepherds, the first part sanctifies self and others. A second part... sanctifies only others. A third part sanctifies neither. They're just not doing their job. The first part are obviously the saints who, who look after the flock in such a way as to save themselves and to save their flock. The second part don't look after their own souls but they do the job enough to look after the flock, look after those who do want to save themselves. The third part save neither themselves nor their flock. So it's the third part that here, that fades out so to speak. The third part, in other words all of these priests down all of these centuries, all of these prelates, priests, and religious who do not sanctify either themselves or others, they simply fade out under the blast of the doctors' preaching down all of these centuries. A s- a third part of the sun was struck, a third part of the moon, a third part of the stars so that, the, the third part of them all was darkened. Uh, an example of Catholic trumpets down all of these centuries which just sort of make the bad priests completely fade out of the picture. (sighs) An example... Yes... Yes, at the end of the Middle Ages there must have been a lot of such priests, and they just fade out of the picture in the sense that the torch is picked up by a new generation of priests, a new race of priests and prelates, uh, of the Counter-Reformation. Yes? (murmuring) Yeah, yes. Um, he was a crackerjack, uh, archbishop of Milan. Or car- he was a cardo wasn't he? Um, and everybody in his archdiocese had to ship up or shape out, um, I beg your pardon. Shape up or ship out. They had to... He really, um, you know, shook his, shook his diocese onto its feet. Shook his archdiocese onto its feet. He was, um, he died at fair- in his 40s I think, fairly young age, but, um, he'd done extraordinary things before he died. He was the model Tridentine bishop, so to speak, of the bishop at the time of the Council of Trent. He played quite a large part in getting Trent to be picked up again, didn't he? Anyone know the story of Charles Borromeo?... the- the tre- the council was suspended between 1545... my dates... The- the Council of Trent was suspended, anybody know the dates? No. Anywa- th- I think he was instrumental in its being picked up again. He got the pope to conclude the Council of Trent, to... In any case, uh, he certainly shook all of the no-good priests out, or made them get on their feet, yes. So the great reformers. He wasn't, he's not known as a doctor, Charles Borromeo, but he's certainly a great, a great administrator. Uh, one of the greatest, I guess. Cardinal at a very young age, 22, uh, in a, in one of the church families, big church families of Rome, I think he was. I think he's a Roman originally. Am I...? He's from Milan. From Milan originally. But there's a rela- there's a rela- relationship with the pope already. Wasn't he the nephew of...? He was a nephew of Pius IV. A- a nephew of Pius IV? Something, that, that figures. And so he was, he was up in those families that provided the leading churchmen and then, uh, at quite a young age, he, uh, oof. And who made him Cardinal of Milan, or Archbishop of Milan? Pius IV. Pius IV, yeah. That's- (laughs) Well, that's nepotism working the right way for once. (laughs) Uh, but he absolutely reformed the arch- the arch- the Archdiocese of Milan. In accordance with the decrees of the Council of Trent, he was one of the first, unless I'm mistaken, to put- put the decree, make the decrees of- of the Council of Trent really work. Yes, he wrote the ??? It's written by him. Oh, it's written by him? The committee he headed. The committee. Okay, he had a commit- the committee, yes, that would figure, yes. Yes. So that's a classic example. He's not strictly a doctor, but th- that's what this sort of means, and the... so the- the- the... and the Church obviously j- continually needs a new impulse, a new impetus, because poor old human nature, uh, the priests, uh, and, you know, the laity kno- are always sort of slipping back, slipping back, and then they need to be pulled up and revived and so on. So, that's what, that's what this is. And, um, some, uh, s- of all of these shepherds, some look after themselves and their flocks, some only look after the flocks, some look after neither. It's those who look after neither who have just faded out of the picture when the doctors down all of these centuries make heard the blast of their trumpets. And then, uh, when they've faded out, obviously it's not due to the doctors' blasts that- that this happens, but, uh, the third part, "Did not shine by night and by n- by, by day," um, n- nor by night. So, the, wh- in these conditions, the flock had, when the, when their clergy faded out, so to speak, the flock had light neither for good works by day nor for faith by night. So in the darkness of the fading clergy, the situation was that the people had neither light for good works by day nor (laughs) light for their faith by night. Light by night, that's funny. But the faith is light in the darkness. Faith does not see, insofar as faith believes in what it does not see. Insofar as it does not see, faith is in darkness. Insofar as it believes, obviously it's light. So the light of the faith in the darkness of not seeing. So, uh, the people with this fading clergy have no light for good works by day nor for faith by night. That is actually the fourth trumpet, so that's a very brief, uh, a- account of all of those intervening centuries. The Book of the Apocalypse is mainly concerned with events at the end of the world. You've got, briefly here, uh, verses concerning the beginnings of the Church, one, only one verse for all those centuries in the middle of the history of the Church, and now the end of the Church, the end of the world, and a verse of warning, uh, verse 13. "And I beheld and heard the voice of one eagle flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, 'Wo, wo, wo to the inhabitants of the earth,' by reason of the rest of the voices of the three angels who are yet to sound the trumpet." Um... Uh... "And I heard, and I saw and heard the voice of an eagle." The eagle here, this is a, verse 13, is a brief preamble to mark the terribleness of the struggles at the end of the world, to mark how terrible will be the struggles of the Church at the end of the world. "Wo, wo, wo." The fifth, sixth, and seventh trumpets. The eagle here is the symbol, S-Y-M-B-O-L, of all who penetrate deep into God's mysteries. Remember, deep in the Latin is same as high, so a high-flying eagle penetrates deep... into God's mysteries.So, the eagle is a symbol of all who penetrate deep into God's mysteries. He's flying through the middle of the sky, flying way above all earthly concerns. And this penetrator of God's mysteries is crying out, "Woe." I'll look around here today. It's, it's woe all right. "Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth." Um, the earth dwellers, um, the earth dwellers are all those who are held down by earthly concerns. The eagle is flying above earthly concerns and he can see what woe it's going to be. The woe is going to fall upon those who are held by earthly concerns. Materialists, we would say today. Woe to all the materialists. By reason of the remaining voices of the three angels who were about to sound the trumpet. In other words, somebody who sees into God's mysteries can see what woe is going to fall upon those caught up in materialism at the end of their world. ? What is the reference of the eagle, uh, crying, "Woe, woe, woe," being a reference to St. John the Apostate? Um, well, you see, I saw and I heard the voice of an eagle, he'd have to be seeing himself, so it's not really likely in that sense. Of course, John the Evangelist is figured by an eagle as Matthew buy, as Mark by a lion, Matthew by a man, and Luke by a bull, right? But here he would be see- for it to be John, it would be John seeing himself, which doesn't seem quite likely. This, uh, th- this interpretation of the, uh, Book of the Apocalypse, a lot of it, if you just sat down long enough and thought long enough you could... And, and, you know, like the monk, middle-aged monks, the monks of the Middle Ages did, they sat in their monasteries and, I mean, I imagine they... And they had their manuscripts and they had their office and they thought and they read and they thought that their lives were scripture. Uh, I think you, you or I might come up with quite a lot of this if we had time and peace of mind and, uh, application and inspiration. We would... And there's, uh, e- eh... It makes sense, if you, it, it does make sense. It, um, how can I show you? Um, if you, uh, maybe I'll, I'll come across some examples, but, eh, sometimes it looks as though the explanation that, that's given here is very arbitrary. On the other hand, it's sometimes kind of by, by elimination. Uh, by working backwards and deducing and, and cross-referencing, it, it does actually, I think make sense, so. Um, uh, woe, woe, woe. Any questions on chapter eight? We move into chapter nine, which is Our Own Times, and number nine is... Chapter nine is an extraordinary portrait of modernists. Uh, it's very easy, nine is very easy to apply to the modernists of today. Poof. They're like kind of grasshoppers. We'll see. Only they're grasshoppers with a scorpion stinging their tails and, and all kinds of things. And hair like women. I mean, you know. (laughs) Making a sound of tanks. I mean, it's quite a portrait. Uh, nine. "The fifth angel sounded the trumpet and I saw a star fall from heaven upon the earth: and there was given him the key of the bottomless pit. And he opened the bottomless pit; and the smoke of the pit arose as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke of the pit. And from the smoke of the pit there arose, came out locusts" and not grasshoppers, "locusts upon the earth. And power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power. And it was commanded them they should not hurt the grass of the earth, nor any green thing, nor any tree; but only the men who have not the sign of God on their foreheads. And it was given unto them that they should not kill them, but that they should torment them five months; and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion when he striketh a man. And in all those days shall men seek death, and not find it; they shall desire to die, and death shall fly from them. And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle. On their heads as it were crowns like gold: their faces were as the faces of men; they had hair as the hair of women; their teeth were as lions': they had breastplates like breastplates of iron; and the noise of their wings was as the noise of chariots and many horses running to battle. They had tails like the scorpions, and there were stings in their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months: and they had over them a king, the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek Apollyon, and in Latin Exterminion. One woe is past; and, behold, there come yet two woes more hereafter." So, the f- the fifth trumpet-... is the fifth woe, verses 1 to 11 of 9. The fifth angel sounded his trumpet. The fifth angel is the preachers against the heretics who herald the coming of the anti-Christ, the heretics who announce the forerunners of the anti-Christ. So, the fifth angel is the preachers, that generation of church preachers, against the forerunners of the anti-Christ. You could say we're there today. We're not right there, I don't think, which you've heard me say many times, but we're like... this is a dress rehearsal for the anti-Christ, I think. So, we are experiencing chapter 9. Uh, "And I saw a star fall from Heaven upon Earth, and there was given to it the key of the pit of the abyss." Uh, the star is the devil, long since fallen to Earth. Luke 10:18, that's our Lord saying that he saw the fall of the devil from Heaven into the pit of hell at the very beginning of time. Luke 10:18, "And the 72 returned from h- joy... were turned with joy, saying, 'Lord, the devil's also subject to us in thy name.' And he said to them, 'I saw Satan like lightning falling from Heaven. Behold I have given you power to tread upon serpents and scorpions and upon all the power of the enemy and nothing shall hurt you, but yet rejoice not in this, that spirits are subject unto you, but rejoice in this, that your names are written in Heaven.'" In other words, uh, it's not the extraordinary gratia gratis datae, the extraordinary graces of ministry given to you by which you can work miracles and impress everybody and become real hotshots of the church. That's not what you should go- rejoice over. Rejoice over your gratia sanctificans because that's what you will get to Heaven by. And the devil had many gratia gratis datae, the devil had all kinds of talents and gifts and that didn't stop him crashing into the pits of hell. And so you preachers, you may... you disciples, you may be given extraordinary gifts and talents but it's not your gifts and talents which are going to get you to Heaven. That's what our Lord is saying. And so our Lord says, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from Heaven." Watch out. You can be a hotshot, you can be one of the stars and you can still fall into hell. So it's not being a star that counts, says our Lord. So, uh, here it is, the- I- the- the star fell, crashing into the, to the Earth, um, is the devil. The star fell into Earth long time ago. Luke 10:18, "And there was given to him the key of the pit of the abyss," means the devil made heretics open up all heresy. The devil was given by God a number of powers, obviously, and he was allowed by God to start heresies, to start up heresies. It was given to the devil the key of the pit of the abyss. The devil can't lift a finger without God's permission. Uh, Darby? Isaiah 14:12 is very (inaudible) Speak... what? The quote? Uh, "How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, biggest rise in the morning. How art thou fallen to the earth, that disseminations..." There you are. Uh, Isaiah 14:12. Yes. Know that reference as well. Isaiah 14:12. Um, so the devil crashed from Heaven into hell from where he stirs up heresy, and so to speak, sends heretics up from the pit of hell. Obviously he doesn't physically. He takes hold of human beings who are on the face of the Earth and fills them with thoughts of hell and with thoughts of heresy. Often... for a heretic, often taking a Catholic priest, obviously. Most of the great heretics were Catholic priests. Alas. Uh, he opened the pit of the abyss and there arose smoke from- of the pit like smoke of a great furnace. Smoke is blinding, suffocating heresy. Remember, Ignatius' two standards, the smokey throne of Satan. Smoke and fire. Smoke is, uh, the blinding, suffocating heresy. Apparently in fires, quite a lot of people die of suffocation. They don't die so much of the fire so much as of the smoke, apparently. So if a fire breaks out, it's important to cover your face and mouth to breathe, try to be able to breathe. There arose smoke, uh, of... as of a great furnace. Um, blinding, suffocating heresy as of the anti-Christ himself. That's the furnace. So the furnace is the anti-Christ. As of a furnace, heresy as of the anti-Christ. Smoke of a great furnace, smoke as of the anti-Christ himself. And the sun was obscured and the air, from the smoke of the pit.The sun is here, Christ. That's, that's very clear. I am the light of the world. The sun is Christ. That's obscured by heresy, obviously. And what's the air that might be obscured by heresy? That might be rendered unbreathable by... Talk. Not bad. Faith, that he has here faith, which is the breath of spiritual life, which is like the breath of spiritual life. So the faith is made unbreathable by heresy. Th- the Christ is made unseeable, and the faith is made unbreathable by heresy. One massive disability of the modern mind is, um, its inability to appreciate what heresy is. The modern mind is completely paralyzed as far as heresy is concerned. Heresies don't... In liberalism, heresy doesn't matter. Doesn't matter one little bit. Everybody must be free to think exactly what he likes, free to say exactly what he likes. No one belief is any more true than another. All contradictory beliefs are equally valuable just as long as they make you feel good. Uh, everybody must be completely tolerant of everybody else's idiocies. The only thing that matters is sincerity. Sincerity and tolerance become the two great virtues in liberalism. And it really doesn't matter what you actually think or what anybody actually thinks. ??? That's, that's the way the modern mind works. At any rate, of course, in non-material things. In material things, they believe in truth. But in non-material things, truth is inaccessible, unreliable, and n- not to be purs- not to be sought after, of no value. And therefore, the gravity of heresy... Because the modern mind has no, has no sense of truth, then the gravity of error completely escapes it. People today have no idea how important, how grave heresy is. It's extraordinary to stop and think about it. When you think how the church used to worry about heresy and pursue it. We used to have, there used to be an inquisition and so on. Today, pfft. The Inquisition is the worst possible thing that can happen under the face of the sun. You can see what a huge reversal of values has taken place. And today people automatically live by the liberal system. Down with the Inquisition, down with censorship, up with "liberty". They all live by that without even th- giving it a thought. It's just so automatic and obvious that nobody imagines questioning it. And yet, of course, the liberal society has its own strict censorship. You try selling a book about how the Holocaust is a nonsense and see how that goes. Or you try an- announcing in public that, you know, uh, women are inferior creatures or something like that. I mean, oh boy. (laughs) Gosh. Or say, say something about Blacks or whatever, you know what I mean? Oh, oh boy. So if you get very politically incorrect, it's extraordi- Where does the power of the politically correct inquisition come from? How do, how do the politically correct merchants have such... They have an inquisition of their own, have an extraordinary inquisition. You cannot mention JEWS in public unless you bow down and adore. You can't mention them. Where does this power come from? It's an extraordinary power. And then these liberals have the nerve to turn around and they say that they don't have an inquisition, that they've got rid of all censorship, that they have no inquisition, that in, with them, every- everything is absolutely free. It's not free. There's no freedom to question democracy today. Well, act- there, there's, there is a little freedom to question democracy, but there's a lot of other things you absolutely can't question. Where does the power of the liberal inquisition come from? Go ahead. Um, their desires to form with the herd. The, sort of, herd instinct. Herd instinct. Yes. Who else has any idea? The weakness of Catholics. The weakness of Catholics, that's another answer, because that's the efficient cause. Um, yes. Again, the efficient cause subdivides. All right, any other ideas? Where does the, where does political correctness get its clout from? Communications media. Oh, the media. The media have a lot to do with it. Where do the media get their clout from? Financial power. The financial power. Uh, yes. But again, money is never the ultimate answer. Money is simply an instrument that uses... For instance, to say that rock music is popular because it's heavily financed is the cart before the horse. Finance gets into rock music because rock music, uh, sells. Because, because you'll be able to make money. So you can't explain rock music with money. There's, there's some explanation of rock music, which is the explanation of the money. What's the... But we're not talking about a rock music. What, wh- why... Where do the media have their clout? The, the money gets into it, there's no question about that. And the money merchants make sure that they get hold of the media, no question about that.Uh, again, w- what gives them their power? What gives them their power? It's not a very difficult, uh, question. Uh... (laughing) And the world and fl- and the flesh, uh, the triple concupiscence, the media play to the weaknesses of human nature. The media make the people think that they're great, "You write letters to the... Your letter to the editor is very valuable. Your opinion is worth anybody else's opinion. You write, you vote, you're great, you're wonderful, you're sovereign." Pride, sensuality, n'en parlons pas, uh, no need to mention that. Um, concupiscence of the eyes, pride of life, and, uh, uh, sorry, concupiscence of the flesh, pride of life, concupiscence of the eyes, not very difficult. The media, these catalogs and catalogs and catalogs of glorious houses and glorious furnishings and glorious... Pride of, uh, uh, concupiscence of the eyes, g- worldly glory. So the, the, the media are constantly playing to these three, the triple weakness, if you like, the triple concupiscence. That's what gives the media their power and if the people were virtuous, then the media would have no such power. The media would immediately have to change their tune. If the people weren't materialistic, it would be no use advertising all of these glo- with all of these glossy and beautiful picture adverts. It would lose its, it'd loo- it would immediately lose its kick. And, and actually, TV and the, the degradation of TV has evolved with as obviously it's led... degradation of the people, but it can only go so far out in front. If it goes too far out in front, then there's a big protest and they have to come, they have to step back a little. So, so the, the degradation of TV is always leading the degradation of the people, but not by very much. And if the people were to convert, the degradation of TV would stop overnight, it would have to. Uh, that occasionally happens. So, um, maybe never for long and never, at any rate, in the fifth age. The fifth age is basically all downhill. It's, uh, it's with some extraordinary... Why, why does God allow for the church just to go downhill, downhill, downhill? The Church, uh, the Catholic Church and Christian civilization for four, 500 years, ever since the Counter-Reformation (laughs)- (laughs) ... the Church has been going downhill. Why? I mean, why would God allow that? Maybe because they're aggressive (inaudible) Yeah. Again, it, there's one of those questions I'm asking, which has got a, a zillion answers of v- various kinds. But, um, from the point, uh, Mr. Summers? I guess when, uh, when the confession sticks and nobody (inaudible). I'm sorry, I didn't hear. When the confession sticks and more and more, uh, more heretics are there. Uh, yes. In a, in a downward, downward rolling situation, more glory to God, more, um... And, and will there be actually less souls saved under the Counter Reformation than under the Middle Ages? If you stop and think about it. Will there be actually less souls saved? What was the population of France in, in the Middle Ages, let's say? Does anybody know? Take France as an example. 15 million, I think, sort of order. 15, 20 million. What's the population of France today? 50 something. 50, yeah, there, you see? Um, well, population of England back in the Middle Ages, about 4 million, I think. Population of England today, again, about 50, 55 million, something like that. Uh, in other words, it's perfectly possible, and this, this is the arithmetic of heaven, I mean, I don't know, but under the... And it is a mysteries of God why God allows history to take the path it's taken. We'll only know at the last day. We will know at the last day, but we may, may not know before then. But it's, uh, it's perfectly possible that, that at least as many souls have been saved in the Counter Reformation centuries as, if not more, than during the Middle Ages centuries. But that's, you know, that's just a sheer speculation. In other words, in, uh, but what is not speculation is that whether we're talking about the Middle Ages or the Counter Reformation, uh, the purposes, th- the purpose of the, of this earth is the salvation of souls. The purpose of this Earth is the Catholic Church and the salvation of souls by the Catholic Church. That is for certain, in any age. And the ages evolve differently, but, um, it, it... The, in other words, the perspective in which to examine an age is not whether it was favorable to ambling uphill and having a picnic, uh, with wicker baskets. (laughs) Uh, the perspective is whether, uh, whether souls are being saved and whether souls were saved and whether souls... And even under the persecution of the Antichrist, still souls will be saved.