(sizzling) Uh, verse 10, "Thou has made us for our God a kingdom and a priesthood or, and priests, and we shall reign over the Earth." Uh, we shall dominate the world, the flesh, and the devil. Not we shall have some kind of empire, but we shall dominate over the world, the flesh, and the devil. In other words, a spiritual victory, a spiritual kingdom. Uh, "And I saw..." It was the 24 elders that were singing- that were chanting the song of verse nine, "Thou are worthy, O Lord, to receive the book and to open the seals. Thou hast been killed and has redeemed us for our God in thy blood from every tribe and language and popular- people and nation, and thou hast made us for our God a kingdom and inner pre- inner priests, and we shall dominate the world, the flesh, and the devils." It's a great spiritual kingdom that the lamb has created, a spiritual victory. Uh, 11, "And I saw," um, "and I beheld and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the living creatures in the ancients and the number of them was thousands of thousands." Uh, the number is enumerable millions. Thousands of thousands stands for enumerable millions. They... Computers in those days couldn't compute very far, ours, of course, far superior, and therefore millions- thousands of thousands counts for enumerable millions. I mean, you know, they, in those days they could hardly do mental arithmetic, you know, I mean, they were so backwards. Whereas of course today, we're capable of stupendous mental arithmetic, just try out the children in any school today. (laughs) You'll find it's extraordinary what they can do. (laughs) Um, "Crying out with a loud voice," 12, "The worthy is the lamb who was killed to receive... The lamb that was slain is worthy to receive power, divinity, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and benediction," verse 12. Uh, the lamb by his death is worthy to receive praise for... Remember what the media said at the time, he was a revolutionary, he was a carpenter, he was a madman, he was crushed like a worm, the scorn of everybody, dying on a gibbet, a cursed, uh, . So, uh, virtutem, his virtue, because all the media said he was a revolutionary. They mocked his virtue, so he's, he's worthy to receive praise for his very real virtue. We're getting now the list of what he really was, and the reason why we've got this list is because of what he was made out to be at the time. He was made out to be a carpenter from Nazareth that was a revolutionary, that stirred up the crowds, that was a fanatic. He was, um, he wasn't- absolutely wasn't macho, all he could get- get himself followed by was women and children. You know, I mean, all kinds of things they said. Well, this is the truth of the matter coming up. His virtue, because everybody said he was a revolutionary. His divinity, because everybody said he was simply a carpenter, a provincial carpenter, a backwoods carpenter. Nazareth, I mean, I ask you. Wisdom, because he was dressed up as a madman at the court of Herod, you may remember. Mocked as a madman. Strength, because (laughs) we crushed him, we smashed him, he was crushed like a worm. That's what he- that's what he looked like. We got him, we did him good. Strength, because he was crushed like a worm. Honor, because he was obviously heaped on, heaped over with opprobrium. What's the English word? Ugh. Shame was heaped upon him. Stripped naked, I ask you, and hung to a gibbet. I mean, really, you want to go and adore him? Come on. He was heap- covered in shame, therefore he deserves honor. Glory, because he died an infamous death, he died like a criminal. Glory, because he died like a criminal. So this is the truth, the 24 elders know the truth about the lamb as opposed to what he was made out to look like on Earth. Finally, blessing, because of course cursed is he that hangs upon a tree. It's in Deuteronomy, I think quoted by Saint Paul.Um, Galatians 3, isn't it? "The curse to see that hangs upon the tree is in the middle of, middle of the argument of Galatians." "Cursed is the earth." There we are. "For as many as are the works of the law under a curse, for it is written, cursed is everyone that abideth not all things which are written in the book of the law for them." No, that's not it. That's not, "Cursed is he who hangs on the tree." "Cursed is he that hangs on the tree." Yeah, there it is. It's a little further on. "Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree." That's St. Paul in Galatians 3:13, quoting Deuteronomy 21:23. So our Lord looked as though he was cursed, especially since the Old Testament said so, Deuteronomy 21:23. But of course, in fact, he was blessed. What a mystery, the cross. "And I heard and every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and such as in the sea and all that are in them, I heard them all saying, 'To him that siteth on the throne and to the Lamb, benediction and honor and glory and power forever and ever." So now the Lamb is receiving all due glory. On earth, he received shame and derision. Now he's receiving all due glory. "Every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and beneath the earth and those who are in the sea and the things that are in it, I heard them all saying..." To the one sitting is, of course, God three in one, one in three. And to the Lamb is the humanity of Christ. So to the one sitting on the throne is God and the, uh, Lamb is the humanity of Christ. "Blessing and honor and glory and power forever and ever." Mm-hmm. "The four animals were saying amen, and the 24 elders fell down on their face and adored the one living forever and ever. Adored him that liveth forever and ever." Any questions on chapter 5? It's all very- fairly mysterious, of course, except Domonos is unlocking the symbols at their own level without f- entering into applications which are more or less interesting. In the next chapter, chapter 6, he will, uh, begin to apply a certain application to the history of the church. Chapters 6 and 7, I've said to you, are the opening of the seven seals. The opening of the seven seals- Opening of the seven seals of the church. Seven seals as the mysteries of the life of Christ. Here, the seven seals, chapter 6 and 7 and the first verse of chapter 8, as the seals, seven seals of the church or the history of the church. So... The seven seals, the first, uh... two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, the first five, five and a half seals, or five in the first part of the sixth seal of chapter 6, and then the chapter 7 is the rest of the sixth seal. You know, so that's confusing. Chapter 6. Chapter 6 is the first five seals, five and a half seals. And then seven is the, uh, last, uh, the half, the second half of the sixth seal. And then eight, verse one, is the seventh seal. And that makes seven seals in all. Say that chapter 6 is a baby seal, if that will help you to remember. (laughs) The dumber it is, the more likely you are to remember it. So remember- (laughing) ... Chapter 6 of the Apocalypse is a baby seal. (laughs) Completely stupid, but that's why you'll remember it. Uh, right. Five and a half seals, so to speak, for chapter 6. The first four seals are the famous four horsemen of the Apocalypse. Famous expression, the four horsemen of the Apocalypse. The fifth seal is the appeal of the saints and the shaking of... And then the sixth seal is the shaking of the heavens and the signing of the elect. The signing of the elect is the, um... wasn't it the epistle for, uh, m- for all things? The, uh, the, uh... It's, uh, it's 12,000 from 12,000 from 12,000 from 12,000 from 12,000 from 12,000 from.12,000 franc, 12,000 franc, 12,000 franc. Takes... All right. Uh, each of the seven seals will portray an important stage in the history of the church. The first seal is the birth of the church setting out to conquer the world. It's the white horse. The second, third, and fourth seals... The first seal is the... All right. I'm sorry. No, that's right. Chapter six. It's chapter seven which is, which is the / (mumbles) half a seal. I'm sorry, it's not chapter six, it's chapter seven which is half a seal. That's right. Six is quite a lot of seals, and then seven is the half seal. All right. The first seal is the birth of the church setting out to conquer the world. The second, third, and fourth seals are successive persecutions. The history of the church is a history of persecutions. The outstanding persecution today. The church is being renews- reduced to almost nothing. It's a very clever persecution today by the churchmen themselves. The churchmen themselves are being used to destroy the church. You saw that yesterday with Pope John Paul II arguing why there should be... why the Tridentine Mass should be, at the very most, a little sort of sentimental appendix of the great chariot of Vatican II. The church is a magnificent mobile home. And then, you know- (laughs) ... the Tridentine Mass is this miserable little rinky-dink, you know, uh, b- beetle or whatever it is that's sort of tr- yanked along behind the great, magnificent mobile home, you know. So there's, uh, that's what... That's the function of the Tridentine Mass is to be a little absurd thing. Tr- a little ab- absurd antique trailing behind the great mass of the wonderful Novus Ordo Church. But that's, that's all it's to be. Uh, si- second, third, and fourth seals are successive persecutions. The fifth seal is the glory of the martyrs. That's chapter 6 verse 9. The... That's the fifth seal. The sixth seal is the triumph of the Antichrist. Verse 12, "And I saw when he opened the sixth seal and behold there was a great earthquake, and the s- the sun became black like, uh, ashes." And so on. So the sixth seal is the triumph of the Antichrist. The seventh seal is the beginning of eternal beatitude. Um, that's chapter 8 verse 1, "There was a great silence in heaven like half an hour." Chapter 8 verse 1. Then it immediately moves on to the next vision of the seven trumpets. So the seventh seal is practically nothing. Just one verse at the beginning of chapter (sneezes) chapter eight. Excuse me. Chapter six, "And I saw that the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals and I heard one of the four living creatures as it were the voice of thunder saying, 'Come and see.' And I saw, and I'm, and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow, and there was a crown given him and he went forth conquering that he might conquer." So this is the first seal opening. "And I... When the s- ah, lamb had opened one of the seven seals, and I saw that the lamb had one of the seven seals and I heard one of the four animals saying, like with the voice of thunder, 'Come.' Come towards the mysteries instead of fleeing from them like most men, and you will see." "Come towards the mysteries." The vision is being given to John and he's been invited to pay attention and to heed what he will see. "And I saw and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon it had a bow, and there was given to him a crown and he went out conquering in order to conquer." That's strange. Well, let's have a look. The white horse. Irenaeus says it's Christ. The horse is... The white horse is Christ. But others say it's the first preachers of the gospel, and Christ will be the horseman a little further down. So it's better to think, say the first preachers of the gospel, the apostles if you like. The white horse is more or less the apostles who flung themselves like noble war horses into the battles of God.Mobile homes, how to take it all with you when you want to leave it all behind. (laughs) (laughs) What a wonderful century we live in. (laughs) (laughs) The apostle seen like a noble horse, flinging himself into the battles of God. Compare Job 39:20-26. That's the horse. The horse is a noble animal. Apparently it liked war. It wasn't too difficult to get a horse and go and gallop into war, right? Uh, white, the purity of early Christian morals. A white horse because of the purity of early Christian morals. If Christ is not the horse, then Christ guiding the apostles is the horseman. The horse is the apostles'... Christ is the horseman, guide, the horseman on the white horse guiding the apostles. And he that sat upon the, upon the horse had a bow. The bow is scripture. A weapon like two, two-edged sword. Scripture, two-edged sword. Scripture here, a bow. And there was given him a crown. The crown is the right to rule over the whole world, Christ the King, the right of sovereignty over the whole world. And He went forth, exilit. He went forth. He went forth from out of Jewry, Judaism. He went forth from out of Judaism with the, the apostles. That's of course the Council of Jerusalem, 45. Great question in my remembrance in Paul, the great question of Christianity breaking out of Judaism, the butterfly breaking out of the chrysalis. Which epistle above all deals with that? Steven McDonald? Galatians. Yeah, that's right, Galatians above all, yes. And you get little echoes of it afterwards, but it's mainly Galatians. Um, He went forth out of Jewry, conquering in order to conquer, conquering the world, the flesh, and the devil, in order to conquer souls for heaven. Conquering the world, the flesh, and the devil in order to conquer souls for heaven. So that's the portrait of the early church. Uh, the devil reacts, and that's immediate... the next, the next seal. Second, when He had opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, "Come and see." Um, uh, the second living, this creature, "Come and see." Uh, and there went forth another red horse. And he that set upon him, it was given him to take peace away from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and there was given to him a great sword. Um, and there went out another horse that was red, and to him that sat thereon, it was given that he should take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and a great sword was given to him. The red horse is the bloody persecutions of the church. That's the second age of the church, the age of martyrs. So far it corresponds to the seven ages of the church, the Age of the Apostles, the Age of the Martyrs. The bloody persecutions, starting from Nero and finishing with Domition, the ten persecutions. Who was the virgin saint that died predicting that the persecutions would soon be over, died in the early 300s? It's one of the famous virgin saints. Anybody know which? Lucy, Agatha? No. Um, Lucy, maybe. Does anybody know? Nobody knows. Okay. Uh, the horseman here is the devil. The horseman on the red horse is the devil. Receiving commission to take peace away, receiving permission to slaughter, if you like, in order to show forth the vic- the virtue of the Christians.The, those, obviously those martyrs are a glory of the church and they were the conquering of the Roman Empire, the spiritual, the moral and spiritual conquering of the great Roman Empire, and it was done without swords. (papers rustling) That's, that's always the way it is with the church. It's important to remember that today also. Uh, God's way of conquering is not the world's way of conquering. There's no use hoping to conquer people today by the media. (laughs) Any, any victory that you go- you had over today's world by the media, poof. It wouldn't worth- it wouldn't be worth the air waves it was sent out on because everybody knows what the media are worth, so you know. A victory by the media, poof. That's not how it's going to be. Uh, uh, on the other hand, it's, it's quite possible that there will be, again, by some persecution. I don't know. It looks, it looks surely that, like it's gonna have to be some intervention of God. But God is not gonna do it without any, without any con- contribution from them. There's gonna be something. Decibly, guessably, and decibly, um, there are going to be, uh, souls from all quarters, you know, that are going to respond when God does intervene. There should be a, there should be a definitely higher proportion of souls from amongst traditional Catholics that will respond when God intervenes, that will cooperate in whatever way it is when God intervenes. There should be. But there will undoubtedly be souls from elsewhere as well. Many I have that are not in this sheepfold and I must bring them also. And of course, there will always be some traitors amongst those who you would least expect it from, so... Uh, let him that stands pray lest he fall. Quotation. Notes. "Let him that stands pray lest he fall." Know the person? No significance that I should be asking you those questions. (laughs) (laughs) Portugal. (laughs) (laughs) Anybody... (Latin) Anybody know? Shh, I think you're right, First Corinthians 10:5. Have a look, First Corinthians 10. "God does not allow any temptation above your strength, but," um, uh, watch out and- 10:12. 10:12, there we are. "Wherefore he that thinketh himself to stand, let him take heed lest he fall." There you are. No it's, it's, um, no it's not, it's not, "God does not allow you to be attempted." Yeah, that's the very next verse. "Wherefore he that thinketh himself to stand, let him take heed lest he fall," verse 13. "Let no temptation take hold of you but such as is human. And God is faithful who will not suffer you to be tempted above that which you are able, but will make also with temptation issue that you may be able to bear it." So, that's it. (Latin) Um, all right. So the, the horseman here is, uh, the horseman on the second horse, the red horse, is the devil. Red, the color of blood, obviously. Uh, the bloody persecutions. The mut- the mutual killing, they will, in order they kill one another, and that we are going to see today. We're going to see more of it than there already is today. Um, compare Matthew 10:21. "Children will be against their parents," et cetera, et cetera. Matthew 10:21, "The brother also should deliver up the brother to death, and the father the son, and the children shall rise up against their parents and shall put them to death, and you shall be hated by all men for my name's sake, but he that shall persevere unto the end, he shall be saved." Matthew 10:21, the mutual killing. The big sword, and it was given to him a great sword, the great sword was the secular power of the Roman Empire. In fact, obviously, the, the whole might of the Roman Empire was turned upon the Christians, starting with Nero. And they were just, humanly speaking, they were just crushed and smashed, and crushed and smashed. But they, the s- blood of the martyrs was the seed of the church. Who said? Sick, do you know who said the blood of the martyrs is this, is the seed of the church? Holden? Anybody know? Tertullian. Tertullian, surely, yes, that's right, Tertullian. Tertullian. Brilliant mind, and then went AY, went, died a heretic. In what heresy? 30? I don't know, let's not... Montanism, Montanism, you know, like Montana. Montanism. Um, so the big sword on the red horse is the secular power of the Roman Empire being used to slash the Christians to pieces. Um, however-The blood of the martyrs was merely the seed of the church. That was the effect of the, all of those persecutions of blood. And so for the third horseman, the devil changed tactics. We come into the third persecution, the third, the th- third horse was colored yellow. "When he'd opened the third seal, I heard a third animal saying, 'Come and see.' And behold a black horse." I'm sorry, I thought it said it was yellow. No, it's black. I beg your pardon. Black. "And he that sat upon him..." That's the fourth horse, which is kind of this... (clears throat) Uh, he that sat upon him had a... (glass clinks) this is the fourth horse. "He that sat upon him had a pair of scales in his hand, and I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, 'Two pounds of wheat for a penny, and thrice two pounds of barley for a penny, and see thou hurt not the wine and the oil.'" (clears throat) What on earth does that mean? (laughs) Well, (laughs) you, you w- well might you ask. Uh, the black horse is heresy. Remember, the third age is the age of the doctors because after the end of the bloody persecutions in about 315, then you have 315 to 500, the third age of the church, which is an age of the doctors because that was also the age of also all the heresies. The devil changed tactics from persecution by blood to persecution by heresy. So you had the, uh, th- all, so many of the church's great doctors come from that time. (clears throat) Therefore, the black horse is heresy, blocking out all light and grace. Black, blocking out all light and grace. "And he that sat upon him had a sp- uh, scales in his hand." This is the heretic. The scales represent the heretic, weighing and judging all things on his own. Weighing and judging all things for himself, deciding, deciding for himself what he will and won't believe. So the h- the horseman is perhaps the heretic. In any case, he is weighing things on his own with a pair of scales. Instead of following tradition and the fathers, instead of docilely following tradition, he's gotta work it all out for himself. Um, verse 6, "And I heard a voice... I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, 'Two pounds of wheat for a penny, thrice two pounds of barley for a penny, and see thou hurt not the wine and the oil.' Amidst the animals, its Mother Church." We're back to Mother Church, the vision on the throne. Th- th- the throne was actually... on which God sat. The throne is the church, you may remember. But th- amidst the animals, then Mother Church. Amidst the animals, amidst the gospels, leaning on the gospels, Mother Church amidst the gospels, amidst the four animals. Mother Church reassures the faithful, reassures the faithful. For a penny you can get two pounds of wheat for a penny. You've got to agree that's a bargain. (laughs) Well, that's the point. The penny is simple faith, simple faith, trusting faith. And for simple faith, you will get two pounds, the literal and the mystic sense of the perfect wheat of the New Testament. So the wheat here is the New Testament. And the two pounds are the literal and the mystic sense. These are obviously the church... Scripture scholars is too modern a word, modern a word. The scrip- the fathers is too old a word, uh, because the generation of church teachers from whom Dom Mollia- on whom Dom Mollion drew was mostly, as, as I, as I understand, the medieval, who are after the church fathers, but before the modern s- what you call scripture scholars, so the medieval, the monks. Uh, for the penny of simple faith, you will get the literal and the mystic sense of the perfect wheat of the New Testament, and thrice two pounds of barley for a penny. Barley is the Old Testament, the rough barley of the Old Testament. Thrice two pounds is the literal and mystic sense of the law, the history, and the prophets, which is the division of the Old Testament.... the books of law, the books of history, the books of the prophets. That's the three part division of the Old Testament. So thrice two pounds of rough barley is the literal and mystic sense of the law, history, and prophets of the Old Testament. And see thou hurt not the wine and the oil. Um, the devil is not going to be able... The devil is not to corrupt the force and the sweetness of Scripture. So, Mother Church is going to protect. Obviously, all instruments of the devil will work with the heretics and they will corrupt Scripture as best they can. But Mother Church will protect the wine and the oil of Scripture, the sweetness and the strength of Scripture. Mother Church will protect the true meaning of Scripture, which the heretics will do everything to falsify. So provided the, um, people keep their simple faith, they will always be able to draw upon Scripture for the true Word of God, and the true mind of the church, and this will protect them against the heretics. Part of... a major part of Modernism was the corruption of Scripture by the modern exe- by the rationalist exegetes, the, uh, the scripture scholars who have a rational and scientific explanation for everything in Scripture, who deny the miracles and deny God. So also, of course, liturgy played a large part in especially Neo-Modernism, but also in Modernism. Not such a part in Modernism, but the falsification of the liturgy played a huge part in Neo-Modernism, the falsification of Scripture in both. So after the heretics, the fourth persecution is by the hypocrites or false brethren, that sort of corresponds to the fourth age of the church, but not so exactly. One, two, three correspond exactly to the three ages of the church. Fourth, fourth seal doesn't quite so correspond to the fourth age, nor does the fifth or sixth seal, or the seventh. So one, two, three seals correspond to one through three ages of the church, the first three letters to the seven churches. But from four, five, six, seven, you lo- you lose it, there's no correspondence. So the fourth persecution is the fourth horse. "When He had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, 'Come and see.' And behold a pale horse, and he that sat upon him, his name was Death and Hell followed him. And power was given to him over the four parts of the earth to kill with sword, with famine, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth." The fourth horseman of the Apocalypse, Death. Artists love the theme of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, I think you know that. Uh, this horse is pale, verse 8. "When He had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice, the voice of the fourth animal saying, 'Come and see.' And behold, a pale horsee." Pale in appearance, meaning white, uh, uh, appearing white or stainless, but not white or stainless in fact. In other words, off-white. Say that pale is off-white, not the purity of the Christians, which is white. It's an imitation of the purity of the Christians or off-white. It's hypocrisy. Hypocrisy, the fourth persecution. White in appearance, but not in fact. It was looking Christian, but not in reality. Which age of the church was hypocrisy? Kate, do you remember? Uh, Purdy? Yes, that's right. The fifth age of the church was the age of hypocrisy. One, two, three, four, five, uh, the fourth age is, um, is the thousand years. And then the fifth age is the age of apostasy, which we're in. And what characterizes our age of apostasy is hypocrisy, pretending to be Christians like the fourth age established in men's minds it's a good thing to be. Thousand years of Christendom made everybody think, "Yeah, we're Christian, Christians is right." Yes, of course, of course, of course. But we don't really like having to live up to it, so we will pretend to be Christians, but in reality, we will go our way. And that's the key to Rousseau, as I'm sure Father Scarry will tell you. Uh-... if you can stop laughing. (laughs) Uh, that he gave to an age wanting to fall away from Christianity, fed up with having to live up to Christianity, wanting to fall away, he gave them a sentimental, sensual content beneath an appearance of Christianity. Perfect. Sells like hot cakes. It sold like hot cakes because those people wanted to fall away, because they were corrupt inside. The 18th century was very corrupt inside, but it had this, i- it had this noble and glorious heritage. Well, it was fed up with it. They wanted to start rocking and rolling. So the, the, the people it listens to and the people it wants are the people who will pretend that we're continuing to be Christian and, in fact, we're doing where there's nothing of the kind. So you will see it's, it's an appearance of Catholicism. It, uh, it's, it's a, a formula which appeals, which looks Catholic and makes you feel that you're still being Catholic, but, in fact, inside it's rotten. And that's exactly what you've got today. Neo-modernism, modernism and neo-modernism is a rot- rotten insides, sentimental, sensual, sticky, gooey, corrupt insides under an appearance of being virtuous. People love it. Sound of music. Sound of music. So, uh, and that's Rousseau. And Rousseau is the, was the, uh, the one who had an enormous influence, really enormous. I remember asking, do any of you Doc- know Dr. Koinowski? Um, he was at St. Mary's for a while. He used to come up here for mass and then, then, of course, he moved to St. Mary's. Um, uh, he moved to St. Mary's in Kansas where he's been teaching ever since. But I remember when he was teaching down here, I said, "You know, what's the great error of the people in St. Mary's?" And he said, "Rousseau." He said, "The number one error, Rousseau." That's one word, Rousseau. The denial of original sin, the pretense that every- everything is lovely and sweet and nice and on the up and up, sentimentality, sticky, gooey sentimentality. That's it. That's it. It, it sells like hot cakes. People love it. Everybody's nice. Everybody's sweet. "I'm as innocent as driven snow. I've, I've straw- I have five babies. Uh, was it by the same girl? I can't even remember. Can't remember now. And I give them all away to the local Workhouse 'cause I don't want to... I, I will write a book about how to teach children, but my own? Ooh, I, I, I absolutely won't have to practice it. Get rid of them." (laughs) So he's wonderful in the sense... (laughs) It's, it's just incredible. He has a marvelous French style. He writes beautiful French, which is another of the seductions. (laughs) Luther, Luther wrote beautiful German, writes beautiful German. Lu- Lu- Luther's, the German in Luther's translation of the Bible, I think, is the foundation, kind of the foundation of modern German. I mean, it's, uh, it was a major step in the forming of modern German. The devil gives some beautiful style to some of his great servants, but, of course, the content is rotten. On the contrary, God's servants can have a style which is all over the place, but the content is, you know... Uh, what's a classic example of that? Saint Thomas Aquinas. Yes. (laughs) Yes. The style, I mean, when if Saint Thomas wanted to write beautifully, you can be quite sure he would've done it. But he couldn't be, he couldn't be bothered. The, the, the content just burnt out without bothering about style or anything like that. So, but Rousseau has a beautiful style. If you have to read, uh, maybe the fr- the English translations sometimes get it, but, um, again, it's part of the seduction. Oof. Oof. He is sick. Rousseau is sick. Our whole age is sick. It's this sentimentality, this terrible, all-invading... Oof. (beeping) It feels nice. Feely, feely. Rousseau. Denial of original sin, Rousseau. The totalitarian state, Rousseau. Modernism, Rousseau. Incredible. Incredible. So, um, if you can get a, get a, get a handle on Rousseau, you will, um, get a real handle on what goes on today.