We didn't get very far last Thursday, but we will move today. Uh, Ap- Apocalypse Chapter 7 ve- verse 9, "As I saw a great crowd whom nobody understood except God could count, from all tribes and nations and peoples and tongues." Our Lord remakes the unity of mankind in the Catholic Church. "Standing in front of the throne" (paper rustles). Standing, in other words, not fallen like the damned. Amos Chapter 8 verse 14. (papers rustle) I'll actually find the quote. Amos 8:14. "They that swear by the sin of Samaria- Samaria and say, 'Thy god, O Dan, liveth, and the way of Be- Beasibea liveth,' and they shall fall and shall rise no more." So these are standing because they're not fallen like the damned. "In the sight of the Lamb, clothed in white robes." In the sight of the Lamb, the eternal joy, the, uh, especial joy to, of beholding Jesus' humanity. (smacks lips) St. Ther- Saint Theresa of Avila once had a vision of one of our Lord's hands, and she was in ecstasy for a quarter of an hour. The especial joy of beholding our Lord in his humanity, our Lord's humanity, which will go- be in heaven. Clothed in white robes, white robes. The white robes are the purity of soul, represent the purity of soul of the elect, of the saved. Palms in their hands is... Palms means victory. In their hand by their works. They have conquered by their works. Palms in their hands, they're victorious by their works. They're pure of soul and victorious by their works. "And they cried out "Clamabant." "They kept on crying out." It's not clamaverum, but clamabant, the imperfect. They were crying out. "They kept on crying out with a great voice saying," uh, "'Salus Deo nostro.'" "Salvation to our Lord." Uh, yes, "Salvation to our God, who sits upon the throne, and to the Lamb. And all of the angels stood in a cir- in a circle around the throne." Um, "All of the angels stood around about the throne, and the ancients and the four living creatures, and they fell down before the throne upon their faces and adored God." Uh, the angels plus the elders plus the animals equals one single church. The angels plus the elders plus the animals are one single church. "And they fell down in the sight of the throne on their faces and adored God, saying, 'Amen.'" (papers rustle) Um, (papers rustle) verse 11 still, "The angels rejoice without jealousy in the salvation of men." It's verse 11 still. "Rejoicing in the salvation of men." "Saying, 'Amen.'" Remember Luke 15:32, uh, there will be more rejoicing in heaven over, et cetera, than over the righteousness of 99 righteous. The conversion of one sinner than- than- th- rig- righteousness of 99 righteous. "Blessing, and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving, honor and power and strength, to our God forever and ever. Amen." (whistles) Uh, notice we've got this here of the glory and praise of God, blessing, glory, two, three, wisdom, four, thanksgiving, five, honor, six, strength, uh, power, and seven, strength. Power and strength. Uh, seven features of the glory and praise of God. In other words, the universality of the glory and praise of God. Seven is the com- number for completion. Six is the number for incompletion. Six is the number for imperfection. Seven is the number for perfection. So we've got seven features here of the glory and praise of God signifying the u- the completeness. That wraps it all up. What are these seven features? Uh, benedictio, their own beatitude. Their own beatitude, 'cause God is not blessed... I mean you don't...... God does not have to receive by, any blessing that, um... their own beatitude. Splendor, knowledge, gratitude, honor in heaven. Number five is honor in heaven. Strength and fortitude to God are... to our God, forever and ever, amen. Uh, and one of the elders replied and said to me... (sighs) One elder, the one elder of verse 13 represents Catholic tradition. Catholics are meant to ask tradition what the visions of scripture mean. Catholic tradition is the safest guide. Uh, and one representative of tradition is enough. You don't need, unless you have to make sure what tradition really is, but one representative of tradition is enough. That's why it's one of the elders said to me, he explains, "Those who are dressed in white albs," um, "Those who are dressed in white albs, these that are clothed in white robes, who are they and whence came they?" And I said to him, "My lord, thou knowest," and he said to me, "These are they who come out of the great tribulation." So the elder asks him the question, asks John the question. John says, "Well, you tell me and we'll both know." And the elder then replies... Um, so the elder tells him, uh, "Who are they and where have they come from?" Uh, verse 14, "Lord, my lord, thou knowest," and he said to me, "They are, these are they who came from the great tribulation." In other words, the great tribulation is what made these saints what they are. They came from the great tribulation, the great tribulation made these saints what they are. What is the great tribulation? The great tribulation is the collection of trials by the world, the flesh, and the devil, the series of trials by the world, the flesh, and the devil... which any s- just soul must undergo in this life. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb. They've washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb. Uh... In the blood of the lamb, not their own blood, because we're talking about all of the saints and not just the martyrs. In the blood of the lamb, of course, by the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, flowing from the passion, through the sacraments, and through the church, to all souls, especially the souls of the saved. So it's the blood of the lamb and not their own blood because we're talking here about all the saints and not just the martyrs. So they've washed their garments in the sac-, in the sacraments of the dead, in baptism and confession, actually in all of the sacraments, were washed, particularly washed (Latin)　in the sacraments of baptism and confession. And they have whitened their, uh-... vestments by their good works. So, the, it says, "These, uh, my Lord "These are they who have come out of great tribulation and have washed their robes and have made them white in the blood of the Lamb." So, th- they washed in confession and penance. They've whitened their vestments, um, by good works, always through grace, coming from the passion of our Lord. It's they whitened, they whitened their vestments in the blood of the Lamb. 15, verse 15, "Therefore they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sitth on the throne shall dwell over them." "Therefore they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sitth on the throne shall dwell over them." Um, hence, because of their cleansed and whitened garments, hence they partake in the unceasing liturgy of heaven. They serve, theirs, they, they are in front of the throne of God and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will dwell u- above them. They partake in the unceasing liturgy of heaven because they have whitened and, washed and whitened their vestments. Verse 16, "They shall no more hunger nor thirst, neither shall the sun fall on them, nor any heat." Here you would say there won't be any more Minnesota winters. But then, the Book of the Apocalypse wasn't written in the state of Minnesota so, you know, he talked about heat rather than about the cold. They will not hunger nor thirst anymore. No hunger, they will have super-substantial bread. Matthew 6:11. There will be no hunger because they will have super-substantial bread. They will not thirst because they will be awash to the eternal life. John 7, John Chapter 7, Verse 35, "And our Lord cried out and said, 'He... Let him that thirsts come to me and his... Jesus stood and cried, 'Let, if any man thirsts, let him come to me and drink. He that believeth in me as the scripture says out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.'" John 7:37-38. John 7:37-38. They will not thirst. Though, the sun will not strike, there will be no persecution to strike them, or misfortune. They will not hunger. They will not thirst. They will not catch the sun. Uh, sun here, it's p- persecution or misfortune. 17, "Because the Lamb, for the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall rule them and shall lead them to the fountains of the waters of life and God shall wipe away every tears, wipe away all tears from their eyes." Jesus Himself will lead the saved souls to partake of God's own wisdom, power, and goodness. Jesus Himself will lead these saved souls to partake of God's own wisdom, power, and darkness, uh, uh, wisdom, power, and goodness. What am I saying? (laughs) Darkness is fuori posto, out of place. Compare Isaiah 12:3. "You shall draw waters with joy out of the Savior's fountains." Who wrote the encyclical Haurietis, Haurietis Aquas? And what was it about? Pius XII. That's right. Haurieti, "You shall draw waters," that's Isaiah 12:3. "You shall draw waters with joy out of the Savior's fountains." Jesus Himself will lead them to part- partake of God's own wisdom, power, and goodness.... the lamb will rule them and will lead them to the fountains of the water, of the waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Compare Matthew 5:5, blessed are those who mourn. Dr. White said something very interesting for he was in New York for, he was giving a lecture on C.S. Lewis. How many of you know approximately who C.S. Lewis was? Approximately. He was an English Anglican who wrote all kinds of books of theology for every man, science fiction, novels. Science fiction of a rather better kind. Uh, not technological, but futuristic. Is that fair? I've not, I've read very little C.S. Lewis myself. Any case, novels, what else? He wrote poems, I think. Uh, anybody? Criticism also (?). Yes, I think that's right. He was a don at Oxford, I think, or Cambridge. Did he finish his days at Cambridge? I can't remember. Um, he never converted to the Catholic Church, but he's, uh, he's a, he's a good apologist. He's very, he's very smart. Not smart enough to become Catholic, but he was smart to, he certainly defended the, he certainly defended Christianity, and quite successfully. Someone, a doctorate says a number of his books are quite useful to be able to put into the hands of people who are beginning to make their way towards the faith. So he certainly argues well, and, uh, a lot of his quotes, if you come across here and there, they're, they're, they're good quotes. He's, he certainly sees how crazy the modern world is and so on, and, but he never really tied it all up and, um, drew the right conclusion. Never drew the complete conclusion. So it's a good start and a rather less than good finish. But, uh, there's a ce- he's, C.S. Lewis is quite a favorite of certainly Anglicans, I think, uh, or Episcopalians, and of sort of civilized people who are sympathetic with Christian civilization. He, he, that's the kind of people that like him. And, uh, there was this, there's a C.S. Lewis group in New York which invited Dr. White to give a lecture on him. This is a week or two ago. And, uh, he was there and he was talking with, he gave his talk and so on. And he, as he came away, he said he was very, it took a minute, no, maybe three or four weeks ago, but anyway, he, he was, he was mulling over afterwards what was wrong, what was wrong with these people. They're civilized people. They're decent. They're open to religion. They like C.S. Lewis. They liked my conference. What's wrong? (laughs) And, um, he said, finally he, he honestly came up with is they don't mourn. They're not mourning. They're comfortable people. They've got nice, comfy lives. They've got themselves adjusted to religion. Religion's good. Civilization is nice. Uh, I've got a nice job. I've probably got a nice family. I've probably got a nice house. They're not mourning. And there's a problem if they're not mourning. You know, you are an OMG. On the other hand, you take, I don't know if some of you have met some of these little old ladies, uh, you know, who can hardly put one thought behind another, but who pray the rosary all day long and who are brokenhearted over the state of the church. How many of you know such little old ladies? Yeah, well, uh, there's, yeah, there's, they are the salt of the earth, and you know, they, blessed are they that mourn. That, that's it. And unblessed are they that don't mourn. Uh, actually in Luke, uh, chapter 12, uh, cursed are you that laugh and rejoice. Find that quote. Luke, cursed are you. There are four blessings. In Matthew, there are eight blessings or beatitudes. In Luke, there are four blessings and then four of the opposite. I think that's correct to say. Check it in Luke. Um, I think it's 12. The equivalent of the cha- of the Sermon on the Mount. Um, if it isn't, uh, back, who, somebody find back. Uh, check Matthew 5, 6, 7, and see where the cross reference is in Luke. Um, best of all, check the cross reference with the, Matthew, check the cross reference with the beatitudes. What chapter of Luke is it? Somebody tell me. Luke 6:20. That could be it. 18, 9, 10, 11. Luke 13. 18. Luke 18. Luke 18. That sounds to me a little late. You might be right. Um, where are they? Blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed. No, it doesn't look to me like it's 18. 6 is more likely. 6 verse, now we're talking. There you are. That's right. Blessed are the poor. Verse, uh, Luke 6:20. Blessed are the poor for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are ye that hunger. Blessed are ye that weep. Blessed are when men hate you. That's four. Four blessings. 24, woe to you that are rich. Woe, 25, woe to you that are filled.... 25 and a half, "Woe to you that now laugh." Oh, dear. What about the smiley, smiley buttners? "Woe to you that now laugh." (laughs) (laughs) "For you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when men shall bless you." (coughs) There you are, see. So there's four, um, blessed and four woe'd in Luke. And bl- woe to you that now laugh, for you shall mourn and weep. That's not the way the world goes. The modern world, every time anybody gets anywhere near you with a camera, you got to br- crack out in the most ginormous smile- (laughs) ... as though everything is absolutely wonderful and happy and great, and you've got every brand of toothpaste in the calendar to advertise. (laughs) (laughs) And that's compulsory, and you're not allowed to look like anything other than stupendously and irreversibly and ineluctably, blessedly happy. Uh, well, that's not the way our Lord thinks. "Blessed are they that mourn." So every time a camera comes near you from now on, you look glum, and mourning- (laughs) (laughs) ... and you start weeping, all right? (laughs) Okay. Uh, therefore during this life, blessed are... blessed are they that mourn, Matthew 5:5, all the saints weep for various reasons. All the saints weep for various reasons, because this world is out of joint. Oh, cursed spite that ever I was born to set it right. Fox? The world is out of joint. Oh, cursed spite that ever I was born to set it right. Holden? (laughs) Well, it's not a mortal sin. Anybody know? (laughs) Damn God? Hamlet, yeah, it's Hamlet. "The world is out of joint. Oh, cursed spite that ever I was born to set it right." Yeah, um, the world is out of joint in one way or another, and s- the saints realize it, and they don't pretend it away like the smiley, smiley people. The smiley, smiley people, "How are you?" "Great." (laughs) "Didn't, didn't your grandmother die just yesterday?" "Oh, I'm great. I'm feeling great. Wonderful." "But I thought your son just committed suicide." "Oh, I'm feeling great." (laughs) (laughs) So, the saints mourn. Uh, the smiley, smiley people refuse to mourn. So blessed are those who mourn bi- uh, so all the saints have some kind of tears. The Archbishop, you could often hear the tears. You could hear them in his sermon. He didn't cry, but you could th- his voice would, would, would crack sometimes as he began talking about the church. As he would talk about the church, you could hear his voice cracking. He never broke out in tears, but, uh, he was crying in... internally, it was obvious he was crying, so. The saints mourn. All of those tears will be wiped away in heaven. All of those tears of compassion, suffering, and compunction. Tears of compassion, tears of suffering, tears of compunction will become sources of eternal joy... in beatitude. All of those various kinds of tears of the saints will become sources of eternal joy. (paper rustles) Uh, chapter 8:1 will bring to an end the seven seals. In fact, the seventh seal is just the one verse of chapter 8. "And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was a great si- there was a silence in, in heaven as if for half an hour." The silence... it's there was a silence in heaven as it were for half an hour. I don't know why this verse got attached to chapter 8. Why... the obvious thing would have been to split chapter 7 and chapter 8 after verse one, but there you are. (sneezes) Chap- the... this verse, chapter 8:1, the seventh seal is the state of the church after the Antichrist. Remember the... The sixth seal was the, the persecution of the Antichrist, and then the elect. The persecution of the Antichrist was the end of chapter 6. Cast your minds back, and, uh, verse 12, chapter 6:12. "And I saw when he had opened the sixth seal, behold, there was a great earthquake. The sun was, the sun, the sun was darkened. The, the, the moon became completely like blood. The stars fell down from heaven like a fig tree dropping great figs when it's shaken in a big, big wind, and the ch- the s- the heavens rolled up like a scroll, and every mountain and all the islands were shifted from their place, and the kings of the earth, and the princes, and the tribunes, and the rich, and the strong, and every servant, and every rich man hid away in caves and in the rocks of the mountains, and they told the mountains and the rocks, 'Fall down upon us and hide us from the face of he who sits upon the throne, and from the wra- wrath of the Lamb.' "... because the great day of hi- their anger has come, and who shall be able to stand? That was chap- that was six, the anti-Christ, the gigantic persecution at the end of the world. So the seventh seal is the period after the anti-Christ. According to Daniel 12, verse 12, this half hour is more or less 45 days. So this verse suggests that after the anti-Christ will die, between the death of the anti-Christ and the end of the world, there may be a quiet period of 45 days. That's what Daniel suggests. Daniel 12, verse 12, let me read it to you. Um, "Blessed is he that waiteth and cometh unto 1,335 days." Uh, "Many shall be chosen and made white and shall be tried as fire and the wicked shall deal wickedly and none of the wicked shall understand but the learned shall understand. And from the time when the continual sacrifice shall be taken away, and the abomination on to desolation shall be set up, there should be 1,290 days." That's the, that's the reign of the anti-Christ, three and a half years. A year, and half a year, and two years. Three and a half years. That's the reign of the anti-Christ. "Blessed is he that waiteth and cometh unto 1,335 days." That's another 45 days, and that period is the, looks like it's the period after the anti-Christ. Mysterious, but that's what the church fathers think. Half an hour standing for 45 days. Any question on the seven seals? That's pretty tough. Let me just remind you, the first four seals were the four horsemen of the Apocalypse. White, the church going forth to conquer. Red, blood, the church being persecuted, the second age of the church. Black, heresy, the third age of the church. Yellow, hypocrisy, fal- false Christians, not any particular age of the church. The fifth seal was the call of the saints, the ei- the church suffering down the ages. The sixth seal was the anti-Christ with the signing of the elect, and you've just had the portrait of the elect. And the seventh seal there is the 45 day, it looks like 45 day, uh, period of peace or quiet after the anti-Christ, before the end of the world. Any questions on the seven seals? Yes. What was the reference again? Daniel 12, verse 12. Daniel 12, verse 12. If we finish the Apocalypse, which we may well do before the end of the school year, yes, we may well do, we might have a look at Daniel because Daniel and the Apocalypse kind of, sort of go together. We could also look at the Catholic epistles, of course. We move on to the seven trumpets. Chapter 8, verse 2, to chapter 11. Now, we're getting into a th- Cardinal Ratzinger said the third secret of Fatima is the Apocalypse. I think Cardinal Ratzinger said this. The Apocalypse, chapters 8 to 13. I think that's what he said. Uh, 12 is of course the dragon and the woman, that's a very famous vision. 13, the two beasts, that's another famous vision. Uh, 8, 9, 10, 11, the seven trumpets. Seven generations of the church. You've got an introduction, which is the beginning of chapter 8. We then got a- again, a group of four and a group of three. Four trumpets until the end of chapter 8. 5, 6, and 7 are the last three trumpets, chapters 9, 10, and 11. The first chal- half of chapter 9 is the fifth trumpet, six goes from halfway through 9 to halfway through 11, and the seventh trumpet is the last part of chapter 11. The last three trumpets are also the three woes, W-O-E-S. All right, let's have a look at chapter 8. "And I saw seven angels standing in the sight of God, and they were given to them seven trumpets. And another angel came and stood before the altar, having a golden thurible, and they were given to him, uh, there was given to him a great deal of incense in order that he should give," uh, from the prayers of all of the saints or that he should perhaps cast from the prayers of all the saints, "upon the golden altar, which is before the throne of God." Uh, I should read it from the translation. Um, "And I saw seven angels standing in the presence of God and they were given to them seven trumpets and another angel came and stood before the altar having a golden censor, and there was given to him much incense that he should offer of the prayers of all of the saints upon the golden altar, which is before the throne of God. And the smoke of the incense of the prayers of the saints ascended up before God from the hand of the angel, and the angel took the censor and filled it with, uh, fire of the altar and cast it on the earth, and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and a great earthquake."And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound the trumpet. That's all of the introduction, and verse seven is the first of the seven trumpets, this introduction. What is a trumpet? A trumpet is preaching. An instrument of war calling Christians to combat and announcing the victories of Christ. Who shall give battle if the trumpet, somebody? Sounds, uh, ... (murmuring). Give an uncertain sound. That's in Paul. "Who shall give battle if the trumpet give an uncertain sound?" I think it's Cor- Corinthians, 1 Corinthians, I think. I'm not sure. Uh, so there's an example of trumpet being the blast of Christian truth being preached. So trumpet is preaching, an instrument of war calling Christians to combat and announcing the victories of Christ. Seven, the figure seven stands for the conversion of men by the seven-fold Holy Ghost. Uh, the seven stands for the conversion of men by the seven-fold Holy Ghost. As the trumpets are going to sound the truth and doctrine of Christ, and with the gi- seven gifts of the Holy Ghost, this is going to convert men. Uh, they were given to them, seven trumpets. Given, meaning no one can take upon himself to preach. What's the word for that in the Church? Pernade? Uh, not... no. No. Canonization? Mission is right, yes. Canonical mission, that's right. You need, you used to need in the Church, when the Church is in Her right mode of operation, both sacramental ordination and canonical mission, and the two things are different. And the ordination did not give jurisdiction. Ordination was one thing, jurisdiction's another. The same with a bishop. A bishop may be sacramentally consecrated but jurisdiction is another thing, and the archbishop made, in fact, made it very clear back in 1988 that the bishops he was consecrating would have the sacramental consecration, but not any kind of jurisdiction. He, the archbishop was absolutely not pretending to give them any kind of jurisdiction. What would he have been doing if he'd been pretending to give them jurisdiction? Setting up a separate church. Yeah, setting up a separate church, making a separate church, and he said, "That's absolutely not what I'm doing." Therefore, where, where does the jurisdiction of such bishops/such priests, Society of Bishops, Society of Priests come from? 'Cause it's not coming from the pope. It's a necessity. Yes. Yes, if you like. It comes from the Church. The Church is supplying, and, and in what way does the Church supply? What... how do you know that there is a necessity? I mean, uh, well obviously, the, the, the whole crazy situation, but, um, what... who, so to speak, puts in the hands of these priests their jurisdiction? The faithful come to them with their concerns. That's it. That's it. The faithful, so to speak, the, as, as the faithful come towards one of these priests, he triggers the Church supplying jurisdiction. The faithful can't bring the jurisdiction, and the priest can't give himself the jurisdiction, but the Church gives the jurisdiction which, which is triggered as the faithful come to the priests. So that if... and, and that makes, makes sense, makes perfect sense. If nobody came towards us, we'd be without jurisdiction. We don't have any from the official Church, that's clear. I mean from the official members of the Chur- the official hierarchy. Those haven't given us any jurisdiction. But they did at the beginning, of course, and that, again, is, that's a very important point. And the archbishop always insisted greatly upon that, that the uh, that the Society and the seminary in Switzerland were lawfully founded before... they were completely lawfully founded, and therefore there was a canonical mission and jurisdiction from the Church before the wildcat suspension of 1975. And then the wildcat, uh, et cetera, and then Rome just built, uh... the, uh, suspension of 1976 was rested upon the, so the suspension, that's right, the, the sus- his, his suspension, uh, what's, what's it, um, ah, suspensio, suspensios adivinis. The archbishop was in 1976 when he ordained, in the end of June in 1976, he was strictly, apparently, uh, struck with the Church punishment of suspension. The justification for that suspension was the fact that he had disregarded the dissolution of the Society in 1975. The susp- the justification for the dissolution of the Society in 1975 was dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. You, you, Michael Davis is arguing it right here, um, in, in the book we're listening to.So, Rome built one... Rome, the foundation stone for Rome's series of injustices was the suspen- dissolution of 1975, and the dissolution of 1975 was unjustified because the society enjoyed defacto Pontifical right so that the diocesan bishop no longer had the ability, according to law, to dissolve it. But then as that Cambridge review man was quite right to say, "Rome played footsie. Rome got... Rome pretended... Rome shifted off the responsibility, pushed onto Mammi, uh, uh, Bishop Mammi, the responsibility of, of, uh, dis- dissolving the society." And then Rome turns around and says, "Well, it's a Pontifical act." It was, I mean, you know, skullduggery, dishonesty of the h- highest degree. Wretched, absolutely wretched. For instance, um, it's, if you're... has it been yet read? I mean, I'm, I'm not here all day so I don't know what's in the ref- refectory, but in 1975, I remember, the archbishop was down for that meeting with the three cardinals: Cardinal Wright, Cardinal Garone, and Cardinal Tabera. And, um, he said beforehand, "Can I bring somebody with me?" "No." "Can I bring a tape recorder?" "No." "Will there be a recording of what's said?" "Yes." "May I afterwards pick up a tape recording of what's said?" "Yes." So afterwards he says, "Well, now may I have a tape recording?" "Come back tomorrow." He says, he comes back tomorrow, "May I now have the tape recording you promised me yesterday?" "No, you may not." "May I have a, uh, uh, an account of what was said?" "Come back-" Then he says, "Then I gave up. I just gave up," he says. With, with people like that, ugh, it's trash. That's what's in the white trash, those churchmen. And it's much more serious to find that in the Vatican than it is to find it in the White House. Oof. So, white trash. (slaps desk) That's what they are. How can they reach that point? What's the psychological/moral/theological explanation of men at the heights of the Church behaving so dishonestly? I think they're just stuck in the horizontal level of personalities and pride. Personalities and pride, yes. They, they got stuck on the personal level. Lack of faith. Yes. Yes. That's really what it is, it's a lack of faith. They're manipulating the bureaucratic machinery of the Vatican just like it's any bureaucratic machinery, with this difference that when churchmen do it, they... when churchmen descend to doing that, they do it much worse than anybody. The archbishop said, "Those churchmen have, have treated me worse than Russian Communists would've done." That's true. They, they are blind. They can't see what they're doing. They're blind. Their blindness is a punishment. It's a terrible thing. God help us. I mean, you know, if you or I go that way, we should be just as bad if not even, even, even worse because of the graces that we've received. But, um, they're blind. They can't see what they're doing. The end justifies the means. They, they've got into, without realizing it, and I'm sure they would deny it if you said that, that they're into the end justifies the means, and, and, you see, you see, the, the whole bureaucratic machine... they, they, of course, they know all of the tricks, I mean, the Vatican has been o- in business for 2,000 years so they- they've got some experience. They've got a long experience. They know all of the tricks. They know how to manipulate and maneuver and, and, and if they once become dishonest, then, you know, there's no limit to what they will get up to. It's tragic, really. It really is tragic. So, how do we get onto the Vatican? Uh, I can't remember. The commission. Sorry? About the commission. Given. Ah, yes. That's it. The, uh, commission, um, and therefore, uh, here w- here it is. They, uh, the, they were given to these angels seven trumpets. Uh, you have to be... in the Catholic Church, you have to be given a mission, and the mission that you're given is very important. The, the, if you are given a mission, then, uh, then you, you've, you can be sure that the Church is behind you. So the archbishop, I repeat, it was very important that official Church approval of the foundation of the society way back in 1970 by the Bishop Scharrer, uh, was very important to him because that was, for the archbishop, the sureness that what he was doing was of the Church and that it had the Church behind it. If he hadn't had that, then it would've been a wildcat seminary and a wildcat society and all the rest, but it wasn't. It was only wildcat condemned.