Ryson, what does that mean? Ab esse ad possi validilatio. Do you know it? Lisa? Ab esse ad possi validilatio. It should be on your sheet of answers. Vera? Something to achieve and then possibly- That is possible? You follow that it's possible. Yes. From being to being possible, the inference is okay, valid, right? If- if something is a fact, you could perfectly reasonably argue that it's a possibility. If it's a possibility, you can't argue that it's a fact. But if it's a fact, you could very well argue that it's a possibility. So it's incredible that parents should be slaughtering their- their children when they really mean to love them, but it's a fact, if you look around you, that parents are slaughtering their children even while they're meaning to love them. It's just a fact (papers rustling). Because, uh, everybody's turning their back on God. That's- that's it. That's it. For today's society to be in good shape, God would have to not exist, or He would have to be unimportant. He might exist, but He'd have to be unimportant. But if God exists and if God is important, and the mass of people turn their backs on Him, how do you expect things not to go crazy? Things are going crazy today because people have... But to think, tell them that you better come back, turn back to God, oh no, any solution except that. No. So there you are. People today are wicked. So womanish hair and lionish teeth, that's exactly your liberal society, exactly. Soft thoughts and horrible, um, destructiveness, and the two go right together. You can see it in rock music again. The soft thoughts is all of this sensuality about honey bunch, and then the- the- the devouring and the hatred and the destructiveness (scoffs) towards the cops and so on and so on. Interesting to read rock. Don't listen to rock music, but do read the lyrics of rockers because they- they- they show, they show all of these things. Very sad. If anybody really wanted to get out of all of that scene, can he get out of it? Sick. Yes, if they really want to get out of it, they can, but it takes grace to want to get out of it. It does take a grace, you know, it's- it's a question of grace, which is why those who see, have an inkling of God and, um, have some love of God, they must pray for those who are in darkness, must pray for the conversion of sinners, because the poor sinners can't conve- pray for themselves. Therefore, you and I must pray for conversion of sinners. They can't pray for themselves. They don't ha- they don't know how. So, um, therefore, soft thoughts, lionish teeth. We go on. Uh, they had breastplates, as breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was as the noise of chariots and many horses running in battle. Iron, uh, ironish breastplates equals hearts hardened against the truth, hearts hardened against the truth. Absolutely the case today again. And the noise of wings is the media, the endless clamor of newspapers, magazines, television, radio, cinema, the endless clamor of all this pseudo-lofty, pseudo-noble, this pseudo-lofty hatred of God, the endless clamor of this pseudo-lofty hatred of God, the noise that they stir up and make. Um, and the voice of their wing, the noise of their wings was like the noise of many horses, um, was like the noise of the chariots of many horses running into battle. The noise of the wings is the din, the n- of this pseudo-lofty anti-church clamor, like charging tanks, chariots, like charging tanks, as the noise of chariots and many horses running to battle, is the clashing contradictory row of the church's enemies, the clashing and contradictory row, noise of the church's enemies. Remember, St. Ignatius' meditation of the two standards is swift portrait of the throne of Satan. That's what this is all.Um, "And they had like- tails like a scorpion. A-And their stings were in their tails, and their power was to harm men for five months." We've seen that. The stingers in the tail, the scorpionish tails, the sting is in the tail, venenum in cauda. That's another Latin proverb. Venenum in cauda. The poison is in the tail. Venenum in cauda. Poison is in the tail. Um, the scorpion, the poison is in the tail. The tail swings over and stings. It approaches you with its head, but then the tail from behind swings over, swings over its head and stings from behind. Uh, the beautiful principles disguising the persecution of the church. In other words, the liberals approach you with beautiful-sounding words like liberty, equality, fraternity, human rights, democracy. They, it's a whole (video skips)- But then the sting is in the tail. As these principles work out, you can, you can see the poison, the hatred of God, the wish for death, the death wish. Oh... "Their stings were in their tails, and their power was to harm men for five months." Eleven, "And they had over them a king, angel, the angel of the abyss. They had over them as king the angel of the abyss, whose name in Hebrew, in Greek, and Latin." The devil mimics Christ's three languages on the cross. There were three languages on, in the writing on the cross. Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews was written in Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew. And the devil is qui- is being called here with a Greek, and a Latin, and a Hebrew name. So the devil is mimicking the three languages on the cross, which showed Christ's universal sovereignty. The three languages on the cross showed the universal sovereignty of Christ. The Roman visible empire, the Greek intellectual empire, the Greeks were masters of the mind. (alarm sounds) The Greek intellectual empire, the Hebrew supernatural reign rather than empire. The empire, the Romans were master politicians, the Greeks were master thinkers, and the Hebrews were masters of the supernatural life by the gift of God. And the name is Exterminator. Exterminator is, means the devil who is snatching men from their term, T-E-R-M, which is heaven, their term , the term where they're meant to finish, the terminus, like the bus, terminus of a bus. The terminus is meant to be heaven, so the exterminator is the man who snatches away from their term, who snatches them away from heaven, which is the devil. So an exterminator is somebody who snatches you away from the term you're meant to be going to. (footsteps) (door closes) (static)