(sound of pages shuffling) Chapter 18, verse, uh, 9, "And they will weep and lament. The kings of the earth will weep and lament over Babylon who fornicated with it, with her..." 18 verse 9. "And lived in dwelling in, in delicacies with her, shall weep and wail themselves over when they shall see the smoke of her burning, standing a fire off for fear of her torment saying, 'Alas, alas, that great city of Babylon, that mighty city, for in one hour is their judgment come.'" Uh, standing now, now that Babylon's punished, they're standing far off from worldly delights. The worldlings lament the total destruction of everything for them except hell. Uh, verse 11, and parallel to the kings of the earth, the in- the merchants, so that's pride of life and concupiscence of the eyes, "And the merchants," 11, "will weep and lament over Babylon." The merchants stand, in the literal sense, are those who are concupiscent, those who commit concupiscence of the eyes, worldlings again you could say, worldly people. So in the literal sense it's all worldly people, businessmen, (Latin). In the spiritual sense, the merchants are heretics and hypocrites... who feign virtue in order to gain glory, not in heaven but on earth. (sound of pages shuffling) So concupiscence of the eyes because they want worldly glory. So in the spiritual sense it's, in the literal sense it's worldlings, and in the spiritual sense it's the, uh, heretics and hypocrites who pretend to be virtuous in order to get worldly glory not heavenly glory. Verse 12 and 13 is a long list of the, uh, the goods of these merchants. Uh, but it, it all, it all has then the spiritual sense, what the heretics and hypocrites feign or imitate in order to get worldly glory. The gold is divine wisdom. "Merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones, pearls and fine linen and purple, and silk and scarlet, all thyine wood, all manner of vessels of ivory, all manner of vessels of precious stone, and of brass and of iron, and of marble, and cinnamon and odors and ointment of frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and beasts and sheep and horses and chariots and slaves," and refrigerators and TV sets and computers and souls of men. The works. The works. All right, now, the gold then is divine wisdom. The silver is inspired eloquence. You talk about somebody having a silver tongue. Inspired eloquence. Chrysostom actually means golden mouth. Chrusos is gold, stomach, mouth. Saint John Chrysostom, or Saint John of the cold, golden mouth because he was so eloquent. Uh, silver-inspired eloquence. The precious stone is Christ. Pearl is the kingdom of heaven, obviously from the parable. A man went and sold all he had in order to get the pearl, great price. Pearl is the kingdom of heaven. Linen is purity, straining out linen, which is used to s- in a strainer, so purity. Purple is the desire of martyrdom. Silk is virginity. Scarlet is charity, presumably by the color of fire, the fire of charity. Thyine wood, I don't know what that is today, T-H-Y-I-N-E. Does any carpenter know what thyine wood is? I certainly don't. Thyine wood in any case is one of those woods that doesn't rot. So thyine wood is perseverance which does not rot. Ivory is chastity. Um, brass, might be ins- bronze in some translations, brass is endurance. Iron is patience, becoming supple under heat. Iron becomes malleable when you heat it. Patience, uh, has a certain amount of give of the right kind when it's under trial.I was just reading St. Thomas More. Henry VIII had threatened him amongst other things with tortures, rack, rope, and all this others. St. Thomas More said, "Those are threats for sure." (laughs) (laughs) So I do- they never tried torture on him. They cut his head off, but they didn't try torture on him. "Those are threats for sure," I imagine. That's a man. Uh, marble is toughness. Iron is patience. Brass is... It's the Birc- the latest Birc magazine that's, there's, uh, article about Sir Thomas More. A re- a review of a book on Thomas More. Um, it's not a bad review. Probably not a bad book, I don't know. Interesting, it says about St. Thomas More's Utopia. Uh, Utopia is a strange book and, uh, it's often cast in the teeth of St. Thomas More. How on earth could he write such a humanistic thing? Uh, in this review at any rate, it- it's- it sort of makes out that... I don't know. I'm not expert in Thomas More and I no- I've never read Utopia- Yeah. ... his Utopia which... and I- I don't know what's in it and so on. But it's, um, this book makes out that it's, uh, a kind of, uh, academic joke. Uh, a- an- an exercise in fanciful thinking which is designed to amuse his fellow scholars but which is certainly not St. Thomas', certainly not Thomas More's serious idea of how the world should be organized. Uh, that makes sense. That makes sense. (clears throat) In other words, it was a, uh, uh, he was a very clever man. I mean, um, in the best sense. Uh, usually word "clever" has bad connotations, but he was very, he was a very clever man. And, um, very, but a very, very honest man. And devout also, obviously. And, um, when he became Lord Chancellor, there was a big backlog of cases and he, he, he pulled down the backlog rapidly. He, he dealt with cases so rapidly that the backlog didn't take very long in dis- dis- to disappear. A very good lawyer, um, and a very faithful Chanc- Lord Chancellor, rose to the top rank of amongst lawyers. But then when the heat came on, when Henry VIII married, uh, Anne Boleyn and divorced, in quote/unquote, Catherine of Aragon expected everybody to agree. Uh, everybody sort of virtually knew that Thomas More didn't agree. Uh, he didn't say a word about it. You may know the story. He didn't say a word. But, but, you know, uh, he just retired and, and hoped that if he lay low and didn't say a word, nobody would come after him, of course. Henry VIII had to come after him because everybody knew what he thought and, uh, without his having said a word. He said, "Look, you can't incriminate with what I haven't said," obviously. (laughs) But the, uh, so he was forced to say... or I, I don't know any... they, anyway, they cut his head off. But, um, but this book which he'd written earlier in his career... What is somewhat not to Thomas More's credit, it really is a question mark isn't it? He was a friend of Erasmus. (coughs) Erasmus was a worldly character and a friend... And, uh, E- Erasmus was a very worldly scholar and had a lot to do with the creating the clim- with promoting the climate of opinion that encouraged the Protestantism. So, E- Erasmus was n- was rather doubtful company. But again, Erasmus was a very gifted man and they must have been two scholars together. They were companion scholars but, uh, in any case, uh, Utopia was a sort of clever man's e- exercise in- in- in ima- imagine, exercise of the imagination. That makes sense to me. Does anybody know much, hear much about Thomas More? Has everybody studied Thomas, Thomas More much? That does make sense to me that he would d- he would sort of write it off as a, a kind of like, you know, some famous man writes a detective novel or writes science fiction, as a kind of hobby or something like that, only Thomas More was a Latin and Greek scholar, so it's a kind of, uh, exercise in... Jenkins, do you know much about him? (inaudible) Yeah. Utopia means, uh, nowhere. It's, uh, yes. And this interesting, this same review, it's in the, in the latest. It's got a picture of a Kosovo, um, gunman on the front, uh, the Birc magazine. There's an, it's an interesting couple of pages by Father James Thornton, who regularly writes reviews for the Bircs. But, uh, it's an interesting couple of pages on this book on Thomas More. And, um, and he goes through the other names in the, for instance, Adimos, um... Uh, the, uh, the capital city in Utopia is called Adimos. Well, Adimos in Greeks means "no people". Uh, so there are several other names like that which sort of completely knock the skittles from under, uh, you know, it's, it's just, it's just a fanciful, an exercise of fancy. But, um, some of the ideas are subversive, but, uh, St. Thomas More was, in his own personal life obviously, the very opposite of subversive. He was absolutely not subversive. He was a loyal servant of the crown, except when the crown went against the Church, and then he, then he was still a loyal servant by not going with the crown when the crown went against the Church. That's real loyalty, just like Archbishop Lefebvre's loyalty is real loyalty. So, he was certainly no subversive. So, the, the funny ideas in Utopia are not what Ma- Mo- Thomas More really lived by or what- what he practiced or what he preached by his practice. So, uh, you know, people sometimes ask, you know, "What- what about it? And what about Utopia?" And, uh, that- that's surely the answer. (claps hands together) So it was just, um, a- like, uh, an intellectual game. Uh, that makes sense to me. I've, I've never read Utopia and I don't know what it's like but, um... So... All right. Um, then, uh, marble is toughness. Of iron and marble-The cinnamon is sweet-scented penance. The odors are prayer. We've seen that one before, the incense, the smoke of incense, prayer, odors are prayer. Unction is the Holy Ghost... Ointment is the Holy Ghost. Ointment is the Holy Ghost. Frankincense is devotion. Wine is compunction. Now, why, why would wine be compunction? Anybody can say that? I can't see that. Why would wine be compunction? I can't see that. Oil is mercy. Flour and wheat is doctrine pure and plentiful. Refined flour, wheat, plentiful. Pure doctrine, pure and plentiful. Beasts of burden is devotion to others. Sheep is docility. Horses in the spiritual sense all... what all of these worldlings imitate and feign to be in order to get Worldly glory, horses stand in the spiritual sense for generosity. Horses stand for generosity. Chariots stand for carrying others, carrying others. And slaves stand for the service of others... and the souls of men. 14, "And the fruits of the desire of thy soul are departed from thee, and all fat and goodly things are perished from thee, and they shall find them no more at all." You know, that's, that's what's going to happen to all these materialists today at some point, either before they die or after they die, all of today's materialists. People today are completely sunk in materialism. It's all they believe in. And this, this chapter very much applies to our world today. "The fruits of the desire of thy soul are departed from thee, and all fat and goodly things are perished from thee, and they shall find them no more at all." Uh, on the last day, all of this trading for human glory is lost. In the literal sense, the materialists are going to lose everything. In the spiritual sense, all of this trading for human glory is wiped out. "The merchants of these things who were made rich shall stand afar off from her for fear of her torments, weeping and mourning, and saying, 'Alas, alas! That great city which was clothed with fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and was gilt with gold and precious stones and pearls! For in one hour so great riches come to naught.' And every shipmaster, and all that sail into the lake, and mariners, and as many as work in the sea, stood afar off, and cried, seeing the place of her burning, saying, 'What city is like to this great city!'" Um, uh, verse 15 and 16, in the literal or in the spiritual sense, all is instantly lost. Jenkins? (inaudible) Go, compunction. Comemption. (inaudible) Ah. (inaudible) What does it say? (mumbling) We're wine to them that are? Grieved in heart. Oh, okay. Well, there it is then. So, uh, reference to Proverbs 31:6. That's in, um, another commentary there? No, that's Proverbs 31. It's older, that verse? Oh, all right. Well, "Give wine to those that are..." That's the, um, Good Wife, isn't it, for Proverbs 31? Uh, yeah. The Good Wife. "Give wine to those that are grieved of heart." That's not quite compunction. Grieved in mind. Grieved in mind. It's still not quite compunction. Maybe. Maybe. We need to look up in some more commentaries to find out why that might... wine might refer to compunction. In any case, uh, in 15, 16, in the literal or in the spiritual sense, everything is instantly lost, the collapse of Babylon. And it's going to be something like that with New York. I don't know how, I don't know where, I don't know when, but... Uh, 17, "For in one hour are so great riches come to naught, and every shipmaster, and all that sail into the lake, and mariners, and as many as work in the sea, stood afar off." The shipmaster, uh, is literally the traveling merchant traveling by sea, so the shipmaster means literally the shipmaster, the traveling merchant. Spiritually, the shipmaster is bad priests, prelates, preachers, who are meant to be fishers of men. Um, "The shipmaster... Every shipmaster and all that sail into the lake, and mariners, as many as work in the sea, stood afar off, and cried seeing the place of her burning, saying, 'What city is like to this great city?'" Uh, the bad priests, the prelates, the preachers who are meant to be fishers of men, is the spiritual sense for shipmasters.18, uh, "They cried, seeing the place of her burning, and say, 'What city is like to this great city?' The place of burning is hell." How could it happen to such a city? 19, "And they cast dust upon their heads and cried weeping and mourning saying, 'Alas, alas, that great city wherein all were made rich that had ships at sea by reason of a crisis, for in one hour she is made desolate.'" Um, they cast dust upon their heads. The ship merchants will do penance. Every ship master and mariners and as many who work in the sea, they will do penance but too late. (coughs) They will do penance but too late. "Alas, alas that great city wherein all were made rich that had ships at sea." Again, the ship owners, the ship owners of verse 19 are the worldlings who staked everything on worldly wealth, like people are doing today, the worldlings who staked everything on worldly wealth. Um... The ship owners, the worldlings who staked everything on worldly wealth. "Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath judged your judgment on her." John exhorts the saints to rejoice over the en- the destruction of materialism. "Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets, for God hath judged your judgment, your judgment on her." John exhorts the saints to rejoice over the comeuppance of materialism. Uh, "Rejoice over her, thou heaven." Heaven is where God dwells in the heart of saints. In other words, here it means saints. Where God dwells, the Kingdom of Heaven, where God reigns. Heaven, where God dwells, which is in the heart of saints, therefore heaven here means saints. (clears throat) "Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets." The apostles are all those who labored for the Gospel. And the prophets are all those who announced the kingdom to come. So we had Babylon, we've had the, uh, destruction of Babylon. (coughs) And now the final judgment. The, the judgment upon Babylon is car- Verse 21, the judgment upon Babylon is carried out. "And a mighty angel took up a stone as it were a great millstone and cast it into the sea saying, 'With such violence as this shall Babylon, that great city, be thrown down and shall be found no more at all.'" A mighty angel is Jesus Christ. Mighty angel is Jesus Christ. The millstone is the mass of the damned that our Lord casts effortlessly into hell. Like a stone thrown into water immediately disappears. With such violence as this shall Babylon, that great city, be thrown down and shall be found no more at all. It's going to disappear beneath the flames of hell. It's gonna disappear and swallowed up in the flames of hell.And the voice of harpers and the musicians and of them that play on the pipe and on the trumpet shall no more be heard at all in thee. And no craftsmen of any art whatsoever shall be found anymore at all in thee. And the sound of the mill shall be heard no more at all in thee. And the light of the lamb shall shine no more at all in thee. And the voice of the bridegroom and the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee. For thy merchants were the great, were the great men of the earth. For all nations have been deceived by thy enchantments. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all that was slain upon the Earth. The condemnation of materialism you could say. Um, the voice of harp players, in hell there is no music except shrieks and yells. Um, and every art of all art will not be found further in thee and the sound of the mill will not be heard further in thee. Um, and no (sighs) there will be no art or craft, no milling, none of the operations of a mill, none of the normalcies of life in the fires of hell. None of the normal operations of life. All swallowed up in fire. None of the normalcies of life. There will be no light and no married life down below. Why? The voice of the bridegroom and the bride shall be... for thy merchants were the great men of the earth, for all nations would be deceived by thy enchantments. Why no light? Why no married life? No joy, no nothing? Because thy merchants were the princes of the earth, uh, in other words thy merchants were princes, in other words commerce was king. And the enchantments of materialism infected all men. Babylon's enchantments of materialism infected all men. Today they've got the economy of the entire world so interlocked. This is one of the things that (sighs) interesting said on recent tape, that no nation can step out even if it wants to because the credits, you've got to get it, you've got to join the system. You've got to get into the banking system to be able to buy and sell, uh, otherwise all trade stops. The whole thing is completely locked up. And of course it's in the hands of the merchants of the earth, so. Based in, the center is New York, the center of world commerce no doubt is in New York, so. There's a brave prime minister in, um, Malaysia at the moment who has tried to denounce we know who and tried to stop we know who from wrecking his currency and wrecking his country. He's standing up to them a bit, but, um, I don't... There's a strict limit to what you can do because they, they, they hold all the, they just hold all the strings. They just, one yank and you're throttled, especially if you're just a little country. They've got it tied up by, by our fault, by the fault of men. Men, men want the goodies, they necessarily fall into the hands of the goodie, of the masters of goodies. Of the goodie masters who are the masters of money. Who are (sighs). So if you, if you're a victim of, uh, those people, it's most likely that you've fallen yourself for the things of materialism. So the world, the whole world today wants... All it can think about is economy, balance of payments, currencies, money, uh, more goodies for my country, uh, more production, sales, uh, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. That's all, all that the world seems to think on. All over the world with no, uh... And the most serious of men, that's what they, that, that's what they take seriously. The rest (blows raspberry) just insignificant. It's an incredible state of affairs but that's exactly chapter 18, that's exactly what this is. And there's gonna come a moment when the whole thing is just going to seize up, get stopped, get thrown into hell, God knows. Any ques- oh, oh, one moment. We've got one more verse, verse 24. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints and of all that were slain upon the Earth-Uh, Babylonians must answer for the blood of all the prophets and saints unjustly killed. If the, if the fifth age, if we're in the fifth age, if the fifth age ends with a chastisement, then all of the merchants and ship, uh, ship owners are going to be severely punished for what they've done to the church. All of the materialists who have deliberately pushed the church to one side and trampled it under foot with incalculable damage to souls, they will answer for all of that. And then in the seventh age, under the Antichrist, materialism will presumably be back, be right back in the saddle again. The whole world will have gone materialistic once more, and again, the materialists will answer for the terrible persecution of the church, which will have taken place under the Antichrist. Perhaps, surely something like the persecution going on now, if not actually the persecution going on. Once again, I don't think we're at the Antichrist. I think he's a ways away, but not all that far away. But he's not yet. I don't think so. Either way, the materialists are gonna have to pay for their scorn of things spiritual. And for their scorn of the prophets and saints, like Archbishop Lefebvre. Shortly before Archbishop Lefebvre died, those people, the merchants who crossed over the Red Sea with dry feet, uh, they were suing him for his, for his, for racist remarks that he made about Arabs. The Archbishop said, made, ventured into politics to the extent of saying that the, the, the quasi invasion of France by Arabs was not good for France. And that the, that the Arab... He said, more or less, that the Arabs are not assimilated France, they don't belong in France. Something, I forget exactly what he said. It will have been obviously carefully said. Nevertheless, that was too much, so LICRA, L-I-C-R-A, Ligue (French), uh, Contre Racisme et Antisemitisme, probably, Against Racism and Antisem-... Uh, L-I-C-R-A, I forget what it is. Do you know what it is? L-I-C-R-A? LICRA. Ligue Internationale Contre Racisme et Antisemitisme. That's probably it. The International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism. You guessed it. Yes, it is. (laughs) They were going to, they were gonna drag him in front of the courts. Oh, yeah. Oh, they were... And had he not died, they would have done their darndest. There you are. That's the, that's Babylon destroying the prophets and saints. That's exactly it. That's Babylon, uh, the blood of the prophets and of the saints. Well, they didn't quite get his blood because he died of something else. But they'd have had his blood if they could have. So, it's a, it's a wicked world we live in. Any questions on 18? A splendid chapter for our own times. Uh, Fox. Are you referring to the chapter, really the, uh, protestants um, (inaudible). Uh, it's above all Chapter 17. Uh, the Scarlet Woman. The one about the city of Babylon? Uh, yes. The, the, the protestants above all use the comparison with Rome, right? Of 17. I think they may... They may also use Babylon in chapter 18, but I, I think they above all use the Scarlet Woman. Be- because the Scarlet Woman mentions Rome, right? In 17, it mentioned Rome explicitly. Did it not? Um, sitting on seven hills in any case. Um... Oh, on, on her forehead was Babylon the Great, Mother of Fornications. So the two are connected, but I, I... And now is the question, I do believe the protestants used above all Chapter 17, because she's sitting on seven hills. Um, where is it? It's behind you. Verse nine. Uh... there you are. Yes. The seven hills upon which... And Rome has seven hills, right? The Capitoline, the, the Aquiline, the, uh, Equiline, and another four. I can't remember the names of the four hills. Palatine, four. (inaudible) Aventine, five, and another two, yes. The seven hills of Rome. Sesquiline, I think that's six. We've got, we've got t-... Uh, together we could put together the seven hills probably. (laughs) (laughs) I certainly don't know them all. Anything else on Chapter 18? Schmidt. A couple of things. In 13, just the meaning of Frankenstein's death. Uh, devotion. Yeah. And then, uh, the harp they were trying... It speaks of harp players. The harp players, yes. Would that be a, a flip side reference to the, to the, uh- Penance? ... harp player's penance, the inappreciative penance or... Uh, yes, maybe. Of course, the harp playing was a beautiful music of penance. That's a beautiful spiritual music. Uh, there's, there's just no music down there. They don't... Except perhaps boom boxes. But, uh... (laughs) There's, there's certainly no lovely music down there. It's all just, you know, noise and horror, uh, shrieks and yells, and, uh, so on, right? I, I... It might be that, yes, you know, it might be that.So obviously we've seen the harp playing is the- (coughs) ... beautiful music struck from penance. Uh, chapter 19. That was the fall of... Babylon was 18, the victory of Christ, 19, and then, uh, 20 is the punishment of the devil, and then 21 is the l- seventh and last, uh, vision, which is the City of God. And that's all, so to speak, that's all on the up and up. That's at last, after six days of struggle, at last, the final vision of happiness. That's the happy ending, if you like. But we still... So, uh, 19, the victory of Christ over the Antichrist. As I said to you, the- this is, we're in the sixth of the seven great sections of the Apocalypse. Uh, one, the Seven Churches, two, the Seven Seals, three, the Seven Trumpets, four, the Dragon, the Woman, the two Beasts, and the Lamb, five, the Seven Cups, six, final divine justice, which was firstly the destruction of materialism, the ruin of materialism, secondly, this chapter 19, the victory of Christ, and, um, um, the victory of Christ over the Antichrist, and 20, the victory of- the victory over the devil. So, the- the damnation of the damned, the damnation of the Antichrist, the damnation of the devil. So it's, uh, uh, 18, 19, 20. 18, 19, 20. The damned- (pen taps) ... the Antichrist- (pen taps) ... and the devil. (pen taps) The comeuppances of the damned, the comeuppances of the Antichrist, the comeuppances of- of the devil. The damned and materialists. We've seen that. It's essentially the materialists. (clears throat) The damned and materialists. Um, 19, then. "After these things I heard as it were the voice of much people in heaven saying, 'Alleluia! Salvation and glory and power is to our God.'" Verse two, "'For true and just are His judgments who hath judged the great harlot which corrupted the earth with her fornication and hath revenged the blood of His servants at her hands.' And again they said, 'Alleluia!' And her smoke ascendeth forever and ever. And the four and 20 ancients and the four living creatures fell down and adored God that sitteth upon the throne saying, 'Amen, Alleluia!'" So always this vision of the throne of God. "After these I heard a voice of many crowds in heaven saying, 'Alleluia!'" Um, alleluia is- is a word of rejoicing. It's- it's not translatable. Uh, salvation from God alone, glory to God alone. Uh, salvation. It says, "'Salvation and glory and power is to our God.'" Obviously there's no question of saving God, but s- salvation belongs to God in the sense it comes from Him. Salvation comes from God alone and therefore glory is due to God alone. All salvation is His. All glory is His, in two different senses. All salvation comes from Him, all glory goes to Him. Because true and just are the judgments, are His judgments. Who has judged, pronounced judgment upon the great prostitute who corrupted the earth in her prostitution and spilled the blood, and- and, uh, and He avenged the blood of His servants at her hands. So, uh, verse two. The judgment of God upon the prostitute was doubly just. She corrupted the earth, she slaughtered the saints. "Avenge, O Lord, Thy slaughtered saints whose bones lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold." Does anybody know that? (laughs) Milton. The only trouble is he's talking about Protestant saints. (laughs) Milton's, Milton is bad news, bad, bad news. He's a horrible Puritan, but a g- a great poet and a great user of the English language. There's no doubt about that. So, uh, how can a great poet be a completely messed up heretic? Derby. How can Russo have a beautiful French style? Did this Father Scarry tell you what, how beautiful the French is of Russo? Luther is the founder of modern German. His, his language is magnificent. His master, the authorized version in the, in the, of the English Bible, King James, the King James Bible, the authorized version is in Shakespearean English. Do you remember, uh, sh- Father, d- Dr. White told the priests apparently in the King James Version the verse, sh- Psalm 47 is translated by, possibly by Shakespeare. The 47th word of the translation is shake-And then the 47th word from the end is spear, apparently, in the King James Version, something like that. So Shakespeare was one of those... it looks as though Shakespeare were... may well have been one of those who worked on translating the King James Bible. In any case, the language was splendid because it was a very, very vigorous period of England, the Elizabethan age. Uh, the, the... so the book is a miss-... heretical, and yet the language is magnificent. Same with Luther, same with Rousseau, and now what about... what was the example here? Uh, Milton, yes. How can a great poet be completely messed up? It's not a difficult, um, question. Gardner? He said, (overlapping dialogue) Uh, yes, that's, that's sh-... that's true, that the, the... what is-... whatever is good in the, in the art, um, is from the previous Catholicism. That's true basically. That's another example. Yeah. Uh, the talent and the use you make of it are two different things. Aristotle says it and Saint Thomas says it. The ars... it's the question of, of ars or art. Um, I can be a marvelous craftsman and make it serve the most horrible purposes. Picasso is a classic example. Picasso is very talented, very talented. You can see that. He's, he's a genius, a visual genius. I mean, he can... he, he t-... he can take visual elements to say what he wants to say and then the originality and, and s-... the striking originality. I mean, but what he uses it for is trash, but there's a... it's an astonishing talent serving trash purposes. Or conversely, you can have a poor talent serving a very fine purpose. That's, um, when you have a very, very moral artist but he just hasn't got the talent. The talent and the purpose for which you use it are two different things. And obviously, obviously the great artists are those who have both the talent and the noble purpose but they don't always... by no means always coincide. The talents probably in each age approximately the same. I mean, God will give out his talents probably in any age you'll find the same very small number of very high talents, small number of high talents and so on. But then what in any age men choose to use... those who have those talents choose to use them for is up for grabs. That depends on men's free will. So you have to distinguish between the craft and the moral purpose of the craft, the moral or immoral purpose of the craftsman. Has anybody come across that di-... it's a very obvious distinction if you stop and think about it. (clears throat) Same with a politician. I mean, Clinton has got enormous talents as a politician, there's no doubt about that and if he chose to use... I... if he chose to use that, could he use those talents for good? Hmm, hmm, that's, that's, that's, that's a... because there's... they're so welded to the purposes which he does use them. I don't know if he could. Uh, he's certainly the... he's got a lot of... he's got enormous talent for d-... (beeping) but obviously the purpose for which he's using it is miserable, but the two are strictly separable. Uh, what's an example of somebody very moral who didn't have much talent to serve his very moral purpose? Probably (overlapping dialogue) composer of the Mass. He wrote for the church (overlapping dialogue). Yes. Yes, could, could be. Obviously, d- d-... that's... there, there are possibly many composers who, who in all honesty and all desire to do something for God have tried to write church music but it's just not as... it's... it just hasn't got the same zing as their, uh, as their pagan music and that's perfectly possible. They're just not as inspired when they want to do, uh, something that's good, right? That's...