These men blaspheme whatever things they know, and what things soever they naturally know, like dumb beasts, in these they are corrupted. Um... as we saw verse 9, uh, that's an episode which m- must have happened over the body of Moses. Um... whether or not it's related in a dubious source, since it's quoted here, that's for certain and true. And it's picked up again, I was saying to you, in the ma- in the prayer after mass of Saint Michael, (Latin) comes from here. The micro is content to say, um, no, he doesn't give him an argument, he just tells him to get lost. Uh, actually the appeal to authority. "The Lord command thee," psht, that was an end- must have been the end of the argument. So, verse 10, "These men blaspheme whatsoever things they know not, uh, and what things soever they naturally know, like dumb beasts, in these they are corrupted." That's a picture of obviously a lot of people today. Uh, they scorn anything that's above them that they don't know about, the scorn for higher things, and the things they do know, they behave like beasts. In these they are corrupted. That's... a mass of newspaper readers today are like that. And the newspapers pander to their scorn for higher things, and then pander to their wallowing in lower things. "Woe unto them! For they have gone in the way of Cain." You've got the references there. Genesis 4:8, obviously the killer of Abel. "The error of Balaam, they have for reward poured out themselves." Numbers 22:23. Um... Balaam, uh, was the prophet who, uh, um... brilliantly advised the enemies of Israel to corrupt Israel. Uh, look at it for a moment. Uh, he, he said to King Balak, "Look, you're not going to defeat them because they're defended by God, unless you get, make them enemies of God. As long as they're friends of God, they're invincible. So the way to beat them is to make them enemies of God." Exactly like the Communists have done with the West. The Communists knew they couldn't beat the West, and so what the Communists have done, or the Jews, uh, they've, um, corrupted the West. Uh, pornography, abortion, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And the Communists are into rock music. The Communists and Jews, that's the same thing, they know that, uh, they know how to corrupt the Gentiles and therefore, and thus to defeat the West and conquer it. Uh, Balaam, uh, Numbers 22:33, uh, that's probably the reference to exactly, his, um, um... oh, that's the reference to the ass, actually. Uh, he, the, the, the verse they give you is the, is where the ass, uh, or the donkey stops Balaam. Uh, oh, 16:32. No, you're right. No, "the error" refers to C. "The error." "The error," all it refers to is Balaam beating the ass. That's, I don't know why Challoner refers to that verse. But, uh, where do you find the, um, Balaam giving his satanic advice to Balak? Um... one moment. Dum-dum-dum-dum. Um... oh, is it... now, is it... I can't remember, but it may even not be in Numbers. It may be in another book of scripture that it's, it's told that Balaam gave that advice to Balak. I can't remember. Um, but the satanic advice was to make, uh, the people, make the Israelites sin, and then God will no longer be their friend, and then you can defeat them. And that's very often the, very, very often the case. So, "The error of Balaam, they have rewar- they have for reward poured out themselves, and have perished in the contradiction of Core." That is the revolt. Um, 16:32, I didn't look through 16- 16:33. The, um... revolt, yes, of Datan, Abiron, and Core. Uh, that's Number 16. The three that, the th- the three members, one moment, and they were, was that, was that, was that Levi? And Datan and Abiron, children of Reuben. Uh, they revolted against the authority of Moses and they are the three that were, um, t- set to separate themselves from the, uh, Moses told everybody to keep away from them, and then they were swallowed up in the-... uh, the o- earth opened and, um, uh, the- swallowed them up. And from then on, the authority of Moses was, uh, established. That's, uh, Numbers 16. Interesting thing to note there, some of you I'm certain have heard me, uh, "The Lord... and the Lord said to Moses, 'Command the whole people to separate themselves from the tents of Kore and Dathan and Abiron.' And, uh, Moses arose and went to Dathan and Abiron, and the ancients of the of Israel followed him. And he said to the multitude, 'Depart from the tents of these wicked men. Touch nothing of theirs.' And when they were departed from their tents round about, Dathan and Abiron came out stood... coming out, stood in the entry of their pavilions with their wives and children. Moses said, 'By this you will know that the Lord hath sent me to do all the things that you see, and that I have not forged them of mine own head.'" Interesting, you see? That, uh, what... "My authority is from God and it's not me. I'm not on an ego trip." "That I have not forged them out of my own head. If these men die the common death, and if they be visited with a plague, like everyone else, then I- I wasn't sent by God. But if the Lord does a new thing, and swallows... opens the... up the earth and swallows them down, and everything they belong, and they go alive, fall alive into hell, then you will know that my authority is from God, and that by blaspheming my authority, they've been blaspheming God." "Immediately as he had made an end of speaking, the earth broken as... broke asunder under their feet, and opening her mouth devoured them with their tents and all their substance. And they went down alive into hell, the ground closing upon them, and they perished from among the people. But all Israel that was standing round about fled at the cry of them that were perishing, saying, 'Lest perhaps the earth swallow us up also.'" Which suggests that the, um, the Israelites got the message. "And a fire coming out from the Lord destroyed the 250 men that offered the incense." So, um, and it's then the lawful priesthood, Eleazar, the son of Aaron, they all... lawful priesthood, uh, picks up again. So, interesting that, uh, all... notice authority had to be confirmed from on high and that's what... that's how it is again today. Authority in the church has been so rocked and so undermined by the misbehavior of men that it v- it's going to take another divine manifestation to restore clout to, uh, authority. Secular and religious, I think you can say. Democracy is so... has made such a monkey of secular authority, and the churchmen have made such a monkey of church authority that it's going to take an act of God to put things... to re-establish authority. 'Cause authority does come from God and, uh, ultimately. And, uh, that example from Moses shows him himself establishing it, re-establishing authority. For, of course, it happens also... It's happened also in the church with... all the time in the church with miracles. Miracles give to churchmen authority. Miracles gave Padre Pio tremendous authority because people know that God is with him if he's... if he works miracles. But, um, something like the thunder and lightning on Mount Sinai or the earth swallowing up these rebels, they have perished in the contradiction of Kore. They, um, they've, uh... These heretics that, uh, that Jude is talking about have, um, uh... are disputing authority. They're rebels. They are animals. They're rebels and animals, like so many people today. They're proud. People today are proud of their rebellious spirit. Just look at the way they stand. Look at the way that s- the schoolchildren behave. Um, look at the way they dress. Everything breathes rebellion. Look at statues of Thomas Jefferson. They just breathe revolt. Um, "These..." Verse 12. (coughs) Uh, "These... the false doctors are stains," or spots, "uh, in their banquets, f- feasting together without fear." It's Friday nights and Saturday nights with, with, with no fear, with, uh, without the fear of God, with no respect. With no respect, you might say today. They're com- they, they don't respect anything or anybody, and they're proud of not respecting anything or anybody. Very much like people are like today. "Feeding themselves. Clouds without water. Uh, carried about by winds." What's a cloud without... if, if it's got no water and it's useless? Just blocks the sun and it doesn't water anything. Uh, completely unstable, completely insubstantial, serving no useful purpose, drifting around, blocking out the sun, carried about by winds. "Trees of the autumn, unfruitful. Twice dead, plucked up by the roots." Trees, again, they're useful for their fruits. These are... As, as trees, these characters are, are fruitless. "Twice dead, plucked up by the roots." Twice dead? Hmm. Um, uh, "raging waves of the sea." You'll frequently had... Verse 13, you frequently had in the Apocalypse, the sea as an image of the Gentiles or as an image of the world, unstable, dangerous, undrinkable, uh-... unreliable, unpredictable, just m- sloshing around, foaming out their own confusion, wandering stars to whom the storm of darkness is reserved forever. Hell, obviously. Notice the- the rootlessness. Again, people today are rootless. They don't... A rolling stone gathers no moss. People today drift around and don't stay anywhere, uh, one place and don't put down roots. And don't... Because they don't put down fruit- roots, they don't bear fruit. In order to bear fruit, you've got to put down roots, mora- metaphorically speaking. Rootless. They're going to finish up in hell. Now, these, uh, Enoch also, the seventh from Adam prophesied saying... This is one of these, um, uh, doubtful, uh, apocryphal books, the Book of Enoch. "Behold, the Lord cometh with... " Uh, the seventh from Adam was prophesying saying, "Behold, the Lord cometh with thousands of his saints to execute judgment upon all." So E- Enoch prophesied, um, that, uh, the- the last coming, the end of the world. "To execute judgment upon all and to reprove all the god- ungodly for all their works of their ungodliness, whereby they've done ungodly and of all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against God." Well, today, speaking against God, there's no end of it. These are murmurers. Uh, that's a sin, murmuring. Uh, what commandment is that? Eighth commandment, isn't it? Murmuring. Anybody remember from our own theology? Murmuring, like, uh, . What's that? , murmuring, is it? Maybe the English word for it. In any case, uh, uh, they're always talking, talking down, talking behind people's backs and talking down, usually talking down authority. You can't live like that. A society can't live like that because society needs authority. Society can't exist without authority because authority is the efficient cause of society, and, uh, a society without authority, it can't exist. And so, uh, to talk down authority is- is grave. The, uh, you may remember the respect our Lord had for Annas and Caiaphas in his passion and the respect of Paul in front of the, um, Jewish authorities in- in Jerusalem. Even when they were talking nonsense, he, uh, regretted having said so when he found out that it was the high priest. Uh, the respect for authority. On the contrary, these people that Jude is talking about, no respect for authority, murmurers, full of complaints, walking according to their own desires, and their mouths speaketh proud things, admiring persons for gain's sake. Hmm. Money, money, money, or gain. Today, obviously. "But you, my dearly beloved, be mindful of the words which have been spoken before by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ." That's the verse which made... which suggested to some commentator that maybe, uh, Jude is one of the last apostles to die. It's not certain, but in any case. The people that Jude is writing to have obviously been exposed in one way or another to the pre- uh, preaching of the other apostles. "Who told you that in the last time," uh, again, "uh, there should- there would come mockers walking according to their own desires and ungodliness." God allowed the early Christians, obviously from- from Thes- 1 and 2 Thessalonians, uh, 2 Thessalonians especially, it's clear that the early Christians thought that the end of the world was coming soon. They thought the- that soon after Christ would come the general judgment. And 2 Thessalonians is very much to get rid of that mistake. Still, uh, the idea is around. And of course, always, the general judgment, once again, is as close as anybody's- any- any particular person's death. That's when he achieves the state in which he will go through the general judgment. So, uh, in that sense, all- everybody is close to their general judgment. But, um, in the last time, uh, there should come mockers walking according to their own desires and ungodliness. Whatever even Jude himself perhaps thought that that time was, uh, it is, in fact, the last time, obviously is about 2,000, 2,500, 2,100 years after Christ. Uh, however, 2,000 plus. So, uh, they were mistaken materially, but f- formally, it remains true. "In the last time will come mockers walking according to their own desires and ungodlinesses." You've got two passages speaking about the ungodliness of people in the last times, two passages especially. Uh, 2 Timothy, uh, 2 Timothy 3. Uh, 2 Timothy 3. Um, no, that's not... Yes, 2 Timothy 3:1-6, where it actually refers you to Jude 1:18. Um, 2 Timothy 3:1-6. "Know also this, that in the last days shall come dangerous times." And-Um, one Timothy 4:1, "The spirit manifesteth that in the last time some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to spirits of error and doctrines of devils, speaking lies in hypocracy and having their conscience seared." Um, so those are two other passages portraying the men of the last times, which is our times really. We're not far from the end of the world surely, so... Um, also there's a reference to, uh... (papers rustling) Two Peter 3. Uh, yes, two Peter 3. So it's two Timothy 3, one Timothy 4, and two Peter 3, the second epistle of Peter verse 3, "In the last days there shall come deceitful scoffers walking after their own lusts saying, 'Where is his promise or his coming?'" Et cetera. So those are other paragraphs saying the same thing as Jude says here, the prophecy of the horribleness, the decadence of men, the degeneracy of men at the end of the world. "Mockers walking according to their own desires and ungodliness. These are they who separate themselves, sensual men, having not the spirit." Um, men who mark themselves out as, uh, animal rather than spiritual. Um, psuchikoi instead of pneumatikoi. Compare one Corinthians 2:14, you may remember Saint Paul speaking about m- men, uh, this spiritual and animal man, that the spiritual man can judge the animal man but the animal man cannot. Um, "The sensual man perceiveth not these things that are of the spirit of God for it is foolishness to him and he cannot understand because it is spiritually examined. But the spiritual man judgeth all things and he himself is judged of no one." So for spiritual and animal, um, see one Corinthians 2:14, "Sensual men having not the spirit but you my beloved, building yourselves upon your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost." Faith is the foundation. Uh, "Praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto life everlasting. And, and some indeed reprove," that's, um, second person plural imperative not third person plural indicative. Uh, some is accusative, reprove is imperative. "Rebuke some being judged that they're fit to be condemned. Others save," again an imperative, "pulling them out of the fire. Pulling them off the road to eternal fire. On others have mercy, in fear, hating also the spotted garment which is carnal." Uh, be careful of, uh, getting too close to, uh, sensuality because it might catch you as well. Um, so, f- have mercy, uh, in fear of getting caught in the trap that others are caught in, the central trap that others are caught in. "Now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to present you spotless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ..." That's obviously to God who can keep you without sin, and who can present you without sin before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy and the kind of our Lord Jesus Christ. "To the only god our savior through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory and magnificence, empire and power, before all ages and now and for all ages of ages, amen." Any questions on Jude? (papers rustling) Well, that's another book of scripture that you've studied. Uh, interesting, very, very relevant so to speak. Very much, um, the more things change the more they're the same. Very much the state of things or people today. Yes? I have a question about Michael the Archangel. Go on. Michael the Archangel, so he's the archangel- Yes. ... (inaudible) and therefore he's one of the seven spiritual powers originally. That's a question I've never known the answer to. How is it that somebody from the second lowest rank of angels, or the second, second lowest choir of angels, uh, headed up the defense of the whole of heaven, and, uh, headed up the throwing out of Lucifer? I've never known the answer to that question. Does anybody know what is said about that? I don't know. You'd have thought that, um... I- I don't know. W- what, what does it say he's, um... what does it say here about him? Michael the Archangel disputing with the devil. It doesn't say here m- I don't know, maybe God wanted to demonstrate to Lucifer that a sergeant was enough to, you know... (laughs)... kick him out. I, I, I, it's an interesting question. How Michael... I mean, the Archangel Gabriel has also had a sublime mission. I mean, the enunciation. I don't, I don't know the answer. Yes? Did all the archangels (murmuring) Did we have a reference in the Apocalypse to that? The seven around the throne of God? (murmuring) I don't know. Where was, where was that? Uh, Michael, is it verse, chapter 10, was it? Chapter 1, verse 4 says that the spirit (inaudible). Chapter 10, was it, talking about Michael, the Apocalypse? "And saw another mighty angel." No, it wasn't. That wasn't Michael in 10. I don't know. I don't know. I'd, I'd have to look up in a good encyclopedia or a good reference to that. I... There must be a simple answer to that question about Michael, and I've never known it. Michael. I'll see if I can find out. Anything else on Jude? All right. Turn to 1 Peter. This is the first of all the church, not the Catholic Church's encyclicals. 1 Peter. There are two epistles of Peter amongst the seven Catholic Epistles, as they're called. 1 Peter has five chapters. 2 Peter has three chapters. So a little background information on, uh, 1 Peter. Um... the story of Peter. Well, we know who Peter is, and it is the, the chief apostle, the first pope, first bishop of Rome. Acts 12:17, uh, Peter had just been, um, rescued from prison by the prayers of the faithful and, uh... when they had opened, they saw him and were astonished. But he, beckoning to them with his hand to hold their peace, told how the Lord had brought him out of prison and said, "Tell these things to James and to the, to the brethren." And going out, he went into another place. So having been rescued from prison, it looks as though Peter thought that the wise thing to do was to leave Jerusalem because if the, if Herod, uh, found out that he had got out of jail, he'd have thrown him into jail again, and so on. So the prudent thing was to, um, get out. So at that point, Peter, it looks as though Peter left Jerusalem. He is back in Jerusalem in 49 or 50 for the Council of Jerusalem. Acts 15. He, Peter was back in, in Jerusalem around '49 or '50, the date of the Council of Jerusalem, Acts 15. We know from Saint Paul that he was in Antioch, Galatians 2:11-14, the famous passage about, "I withstood Peter to his face." It's generally accepted that Peter was Bishop of Antioch befo- after Jerusalem, he went to Antioch. He became, he was Bishop of Antioch, which of course was a major, major city, Greek city at that time. A very important city. Uh, he was Bishop of Antioch, but the dates are uncertain. Nobody knows for sure from when to when he was Bishop of Antioch. He made hi-... According to Eusebius, he, Peter first visited Rome under the Emperor Claudius. That's the late '40s, early '50s. Under the Emperor Claudius. Perhaps, again, sheer question mark, nobody knows, uh, between Antioch and Rome, he visited the churches that he addresses in 1- at the beginning of 1 Peter, but that's just pure guesswork. "Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers dispersed through Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia." So maybe in between, uh... Antioch and Rome, Peter visited the churches of Asia Minor, what t- what today is Turkey, what then was Galatia, um, amongst others. Uh, he was, Peter was certainly back in Rome at the end of his life, and he was martyred in Rome under the Emperor Nero in '64 or '67. I don't know what the latest state of that scholarly dispute is. But apparently, those are the two, the alternate dates, the martyrdom of Peter. He was crucified by his own request upside down. He said, "I'm not fit to be crucified my- my- like my Lord." So he asked them to crucify him upside down, which they did, I think. We see pho- pictures of N- Peter crucified upside down. He was crucified, whereas Paul had his head cut off. Does anybody know why (inaudible)?You know why Paul had his head cut off whereas R- Peter was crucified? Because he wasn't a Roman citizen. Yes, that's it. Paul was a Roman citizen, so he had the privilege of ha- having his head cut off instead of being crucified. (laughs) If he'd been, uh, uh, the crucifixion was sort of the treatment for a slave, whereas some, a Roman citizen w- was not crucified, so Peter was on the level of a slave, so to speak. Um, that he was martyred in Rome and, um, is a well-known fact, much alluded to, uh, in ear- in early church documents. No, uh, it, it is no- and it's, it's too obvious, uh, to be disputed really. Notably no, no other church claims the honor. I mean if any other- if, if Mar- if Peter had died anywhere else, um, wherever it was would've obviously claimed the honor. We'd have heard about it. Added to which it was entirely fitting that, uh, the Holy S- the, the Eternal City should be consecrated by the blood of Peter and of the fir- of the princes of the apostles. Uh, that's in the hymn of the liturgy of June the 29th. Can anybody quote it by- quote it, quote it? Has anyone got the Breviary with it, the Summer Breviary? No, they won't have the Summer Breviary with them. The, um, it's, it's a lot, it's a, it's a handsome hymn, uh, uh, written in iambics. It's, most of the iamb- iambic pentameters. Most of the hymns (footsteps thumping) in the breviary are written in, in four-line verses, which are, uh, short, well, long, long; short, long; short, well, long, long; short, long. But there are four feet. That's a, a tetrameter, an i- an iambic tetrameter. And that's actually a trochee. Um, so you've got four long syllables (taps foot) and you'll notice that the accent, the words often the accent on the word will fall on those syllables often. Not always, but often. Um, the advantage of this verse, this form of verse is that in, in Roman, in Latin you have many long syllables and not so many short. In Greek there's a far higher proportion of short syllables to long. But in Latin there are many rather more long syllables. So here you can write a line with one, two, three, four, five, six out of eight syllables long. Um, rector, potens, verax, Deus. There you are. Rector, (taps foot) long, long. Potens, (taps foot) short, long. Verax, (taps foot) long, long. Deus, short, long. Actually, short, short. But, uh, that's... All of that is long. One, two, three, four, five. Uh, rector, potens, verax, Deus. Actually there, that's four words, precisely one word to each foot. The Roman hymn, uh, the Hymn of Rome is an iambic pentameter, which you, there are many, most of the hymns in the breviary are four lines like this. Another reason is undoubtedly that that's about th- the length of a breath, a breath. As you're singing, that's probably about the length of a breath, of a breath. Whereas if it's much longer, you'll have to divide it in two and so on. So by the number of long syllables and by the, uh, length of the line as a whole, that's the most suitable and that's why most of the poems in the breviary are in this verse. But the one of Rome is in, uh, on... Oh, I can't remember it, but, um, (taps foot) it mentions Paul and Peter, uh, consecrating with their blood, the Eternal City. Next point, you have lists of popes and numerous church fathers refer to Peter being the first Bishop of Rome. Have you studied, looked at this in apologetics? Probably you have. Yes. Surely, yes. Okay. I don't, I don't need to insist. Uh, 1 Peter 5:13, uh, um, "The church that is in Babylon, elected together with you saluteth you and so doth my son Mark." "The church that is in Babylon," uh, Babylon, there is a clear re- the, the... This letter was written in Rome. Babylon is a clear reference to Rome. So 1 Peter was written in Rome. And then there are notably the archaeological excavations. And that's... In the last few years there, there was a sensational discovery. Does anybody know much about the excavations in Rome? Uh, R- the present church, uh, the, uh, the, the, the present Vatican was, uh, church, was obviously built, um, time when Michelangelo... What's the name of the, uh, uh, Ben- Benini... Uh, Be- who designed the dome? Cromarti? I think that's right. Yes. Uh, (clears throat) around, in other words, the late 1400s, right? When was it, when was it... Uh, does anybody know exactly what year it was consecrated? Built around the late 1400s. 1620s. Oh, as late as that? All but certain. 30 years. Really? But it was built much earlier, wasn't it? Uh, probably, yeah. That was just when the- And what are the dates of Michelangelo? When did Michelangelo die? When... Cromarti. 1530s. Yes. Yes.And he obviously painted the Sistine Chapel, that's obvious. So it's- it's late 1400s, early 1500s, I think they were built. In any case, um, it's the- it's sim- before that, there have been three or four churches. W- who built the first mega church, the first big church on the spot? Does anybody know? Constantine. The Emperor Constantine, right. Because that's when the emperor con- the empire converted, under the Emperor Constantine, and he, to honor Peter, built, uh, this big church in a very unsuitable spot. I mean, it was- it wasn't the central Rome at all and it's marshy land, I think, at the time. It was a kind of, um, stadium, a sports stadium there, wasn't there? There was a- I think there was a hippodrome, uh, in the area. In any case, he built this church and he built it over the spot, uh, of, uh, Peter's martyrdom and the- and the spot of Peter's bones. That's what- that's what everybody says. That's what everybody used to say. Um, after Constantine, does anybody know when the next important church was built? I don't know. I think it was a long before that, 2000 years. Oh, really? Oh, so it lasted all that time. Well, in that case, there were some edifices there before Constantine. I'm not an expert. There were some, um, which you would expect the Christians would have done- put something over. In any case, in recent years, and within the last about 10 years ago or- or even five years ago only, there's an Italian woman, a doctoress of some kind, who was in charge of... They've been excavating, they've been h- look- looking into, they've been digging out what's right down ren- there in the middle and in the heart of it. And they found astonishing evidence that it really is Peter's bones. (laughs) And they found, you know, what really do like- pe- pe- what really does look like Peter's own bones, uh, right there. I forget exactly what makes them say with such certainty that it is Peter's own bones that are there. Uh, Fox? It was a, um, strange amount of bones and suddenly appeared two legs below. So when he was reburied by Constantine, that's why people came to the work well and that... Is that it? Oh, there's... That's what they were saying. I can't remember, but, uh, th- there- it caused quite a, a stir in Rome, uh, five- only five, six, seven years ago. I didn't keep any of the articles. I just not- archeology is not sort of interest of mine, but, uh, the stir was, of course, because this was the proof that church tradition was right, Catholic tradition was right. And when the modernists... you know, the modernists try to discredit all of these old, especially that, uh, Peter's bones are there to validate the connection, the direct connection with the apostle, the direct founding of the Roman Church and so on and so on. The modernists find one way or another to try to discredit that and- and- and, uh, cast in- cast doubt upon it. And- and she, the doctoress, was a per- persona non grata in Rome, precisely because she was proving in the teeth of all of these modernists that what the old church says is absolutely true, that the old tradition is true. So there was quite- she- she was- I- I think there was quite a conspiracy of silence against her. I think it was 30 Days was writing about it, I think, or Inside the Vatican, one or the other, I think. They had articles about it and they were saying that she's, you know, she's not very popular in Rome at all because, um, she's just proving that... an- and the- it was the physical evidence right there. I know that when, um, Father Rudy Goyti and Father Escarra took a group of seminarians to Rome, uh, gosh, how- four years ago, uh, Father Duschlau, I know wanted them to visit the, um, excavation. They, for one reason or another, they didn't. But, uh, Father Duschlau knew all about this and was up to date with it and so on and it was... It's- it's very interesting. Of course, the- because you can- as you can expect, the- the- what's- the- the- the tomb of Peter himself or the bones of Peter himself or the grave of Peter himself will have been encircled and then encircled again and then encircled again like the atomic reactor in Chernobyl. You know, you put tons of concrete and concrete and concrete, you know, to try to shut it all in. Um, it's a clumsy comparison. But, uh, for some reason, in recent years, they've been digging in there and looking, looking, looking at it and they found, uh, they found that for experts, complete evidence that it is Peter's own bones still there which is what you might expect. Because, you know, the Christians won't- an- in any age, the Christians won't easily have allowed it all to be disturbed or fooled around with. The modernists have discredited it without- but without daring to go in there and try and destroy it or whatever, but they'd be capable of that but they haven't dared in this case. Would be a little risky fooling around with the bones of Saint Peter. (laughs) Oof. Imagine him... (laughs) Imagine him going up to the pearly gates and having to face him. I mean, yoo-hoo. (laughs) Oof. So the archeological excavations, there are also, uh, inscriptions in the catacombs. Uh, there's one printed in this- in this little manual which says in- in- uh, it's- it's on one of the graves in the catacombs, uh, "Petri et Pauli, uh, orati pro Victore." Uh, Peter and Paul pray for Victor. Uh, there's a little picture of it. And that, um... Pauli et Petri. Petiti pro victore, petiti, uh, pro victore. So- so that's a section that's very much been updated in recent years and it's always the- you know, um, it's always the same. It's the- the archeological evidence confirms ancient tr- tradition of the church. Canonicity of 1 Peter, never questioned.You see, be as mentioned, it assumes it in a... The authenticity is it really, is One Peter really by Peter? The external evidence and the internal evidence. Uh, One Peter is quoted from very early on in, by church authors, Saint Clement of Rome, Polycarp, and so on. So other church authors are quoting One Peter from a very early on. Saint Clement of Rome, who was the end of the, who wrote his famous epistle to the Corinthians in '95, I think. Saint Clement of Rome, Polycarp, about, it's a little later. From very early on, the epistle is attributed explicitly to Peter, Irenaeus, Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, Origen. Irenaeus, Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, Origen. Notice also as external evidence Two- Two Peter 3:1, "Behold this second epistle I write you, my dearly beloved, in which I stir up by way of admonition your sincere mind." So another external reference is Two Peter 3:1. The internal evidence, that is to say, f- working from inside the epistle itself, indicating that the author was indeed Peter, uh, One Peter 1:1. Um, uh, well it says there, it simply says Peter. One Peter 1:1, "Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ." Well, there weren't two, so... Um, that states that it's him. Uh, then there's also "my beloved Mark," which we saw a few moments ago at the end of the epistle. Uh, "So doth" uh, ver- chap- 5 verse 13, "So doth my son Mark, the church that is in Babylon saluteth you, and so doth my son Mark." It's well-known that Mark was the, was very close to Peter. So Mark was in Rome with Peter at this time. Sylvanus verse, uh, chapter 5 verse 12... 1 Timothy 5 verse 12, "Sylvanus is a prominent figure in the early church." Compare Acts 15 verse 22 for Sylvanus. Acts 15:22. Briefly, One Peter 5 verse 1... This shan't be long. "The ancients therefore that are among you I beseech, who am I myself also an ancient and a witness of the sufferings of Christ." Again, that's- that might be fraudulent, but there aren't all that many who were actually witnesses to the sufferings of Christ. Uh, the witness of the Passion, and, uh, Saint Paul says he's also a church leader. So the author of the, the author of the epistle is apparently a leader of the church and a witness of the Passion of Christ. There aren't all that many that there could be. There aren't all that many people that there could be. There are, again, throughout the text of, throughout One Peter over 50 texts recalling passages from the Gospels. Fifty texts. Fifty-four texts somebody's counted. Fifty-four texts in One Peter recall specific passages from the Gospels. The Gospel of Mark is supposed to have been taken from the lips of Peter. Mark wrote down Peter's own account of the life and death of our Lord. And lastly, there's a similarity, a marked similarity between One Peter and the speech of Peter in Acts 15. That's a- an argument from content. An in- an internal argument. There are notable similarities between the content of the speech of Peter in Acts 15 and the content of One Pe- First Epistle to Peter.