(coughs) Chapter 19. Or the end of chapter 18? Nineteen. 19 verse? (inaudible) Okay. "After these things I heard like a voice of many crowds in heaven saying, 'Alleluia! Salvation and glory and power to the Law- to our God." Uh, salvation comes from God alone and so glory to Him alone. Alleluia. There's going to be a series of alleluiahs in this chapter. At least, uh, alleluia verse 1, alleluia verse 3, alleluia verse 4, alleluia verse 6. Alleluia. Untranslatable. Alleluia. Yippee. (laughs) Good on you. (laughs) Untranslatable. Uh, vers- because true and just are his judgments, who passed judgment on the great prostitute who corrupted the land in her prostitution, and... Um, who judged the, uh, be careful. It's, uh, in the Latin it's ambiguous. The, the, uh, prostitute corrupted the land in her prostitution, but secondly the Lord God avenged the saints', uh, uh, the blood of His servants at her hands. So, uh, there are two reasons, um, God's judgment on the prostitute was doubly just. That is to say, she had corrupted the land and she'd shed the blood of God's servants, so He passed judgment on her for two good reasons. Um, I don't know if it's tr- ambiguous here. Uh, for true and just are His judgments, who hath judged the great harlot which corrupted the earth with her fornication and who hath revenged the blood of His servants at her hands. So who hath revenged is obviously the Lord God. And again they said, "Alleluia." Verse 3. Uh, and her smoke ascendeth forever and ever. Um, the alleluia goes, uh, there are four alleluias. It, it, the alleluiahs goes on forever. In heaven, the saints will be crying alleluia for eternity. Forever and ever is, uh, alle- the alleluia is eternal, verse 3, and the smoke of Babylon's damnation also rises eternally. Have you been noticing how, how much the Psalms do say, um, good for the good guys and bad for the bad guys? It's, it's constant. Mm-hmm. And it's really the, uh, expression of faith that the, that there is a God in command of the universe who will punish the wicked and reward the good. And that's something that, you know, plenty of things in this life seem to contradict, but it's something which it's essential to keep hold of in order to get to heaven. So, uh, during this life for the mass of people it seems to be hidden what life is really about. And blessed are those few who see and then who live in accordance with, who live against the grain of this whole life. It's what the apocalypse is saying all the time. Who live against the grain of this life, against everything that other men hold to be worth living for and dying for. They li- live against the grain of that. They, they trample the world beneath their feet in order purely to obtain the joys of heaven. But you have to believe in heaven in order to get there because there's so little apparent in this life that seems to support it. But that's what the Psalms are all about, and this is obviously what the Apocalypse is also all about. Live for eternity, live for God, because, uh, things are not, after death they're going to, they shall be the same way as they've seen before death. So the Lord God is... So in heaven they're going to be crying alleluia while the, all earthly materialism and prosperity and success and the skyscrapers are just going to be going up in eternal smoke. There's going to be like an eternal monument of the stupidity of materialism and the wrath of God. Uh, again they cried out alleluia and the, the smoke, it, its smoke, the smoke of Babylon, arose forever and ever. Uh, verse 4. And the, the el- the 24 elders fell down, and the four animals, and adored the lo- the, the God sitting upon the throne saying, "Amen. Alleluia." Uh, the 24 elders are the 12 prophets of the Old Testament, the 12 Apostles of the New Testament.... and all evangelizers associated with those... all those who preach the kingdom of God in the Old or New Testament or at any time. When did... What chapter do we first meet the 24? Are they... Chapter 4, yeah. Chapter 4, yeah. That's right. Um, with a sea of glass, and the rainbow over the throne. And the 24 elders fell down, and the four animals are, of course, the, the evangelists. And all with them, and they adored the, the God sitting upon the throne saying, "Amen, alleluia." So Augustine says, "The whole occupation of the blessed will be to cry out, 'Alleluia,' amen."" So Augustine says it, "The whole, the whole occupation of the blessed will be to cry out, 'Alleluia,' amen." Uh, "Alleluia," rejoicing in the truth seen. "Alleluia" to express rejoicing in the truth seen. "Amen" to express joy in possessing the truth. I don't know if that's Augustine or not. "Alleluia," rejoicing in the truth seen. That's the beatific vision. It's the visio quod faciet beatum, beatific vision. Saint Thomas Aquinas says the beatific vision is primarily and essentially vision, upon which automatically and absolutely follows the joy in the will, that it's an, an act in itself of the intellect, the beatific vision because it's a, because it's a vision. Others put the primacy in the will. Love, love, love. Probably the Franciscan theologians, (laughs) who the church doesn't condemn, who the church doesn't condemn. But when you talk about... when you put the vision first, you're anchoring the love in the object upon which follows the vision of the... upon the object of the... u- upon the vision of the object follows an anchored j- rejoicing in the will, but you put the will first and you can put all kinds of nonsense in front of it. So it's much safer to, um, in that respect, give primacy to the vision. Uh, "And a voice came out from the throne saying, 'Tell praise to the Lord God, to our Lord, to our God, O all ye servants of his, and you who fear him, both small and great.' And a voice came out from the throne saying, 'Give praise to our God, all ye his servants, and you that fear him, little and great.'" Uh, only those who fear God can praise him. Hmm. Dom Maglione doesn't believe in modernism. Only those who fear God can praise him. God rejects the praise of lips proceeding from a corrupt heart. All of those Protestants who... and modernists, liberals, who claim that they believe in God, claim that they love God, pla- pray that they praise God, but there's no fear of God. There's no sense of the real God in their hearts or minds, or their minds or hearts. Therefore, their supposed praise, et cetera, et cetera, is liable to be... without the fear of God, it's liable to be just so much illusion. How can anybody have any knowledge at all of the real God without it having at least a filial fear? And (laughs) most of us, uh, at least beginning with a servile fear. But the, the lo- the idea of, you know, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. (laughs) Oh, no. He's love. You know? So it's a, it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Motes? I don't know whether the neon light will tell you. (laughs) Fox? Hebrews? Yes, yes. Whereabouts? Right. More toward the end. Yes. (laughs) Yes. That rules out at least half. (laughs) (laughs) And you got the right half. Well... Uh, not too far off. I think it's 10, but you're quite close. Uh, find it. "It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God." Hebrews, I think, 10. Uh, 10:31. There it is. "It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God." There you are. Yes. Saint Paul had the fear of God.Even Saint Paul, who was wrapped up to heaven, whether in the body or, or out of the body, God knows. Whether in the body or out of the body, God knows. Gleason? About where? You're right. Sorry? No. Buckle? Whether in the body or out of the body, I know not. Saint Paul's autobiography. No, you got the wrong half. It says closer to the end. (laughs) Ah, a little further, it's 11 and 12. 11, 2 Corinthians 11, "Whether in the body or out of the body, I know not." Saint Paul is recounting his raptures. Why is Saint Paul recounting his raptures? Portugal? (Inaudible). Yes, because the Corinthians- (Inaudible). ... have been questioning his, uh, his apostleship. And so the whole of 2 Corinthians is a kind of apology in the old-fashioned sense. Let's say a defense, a self-defense, the defense of the ministers of the New Testament, and then of Saint Paul in particular. But what does Saint Paul's boasting finally come to rest in? Holden, do you know? Do you remember? (Inaudible). Yeah, in his infirmities, but if I, I will boast in my infirmities. Why is it, why is it something, why does the Christian apostle boast in his infirmities? Okay. (Inaudible). Sorry? (Inaudible). Exactly, the ver- the Christ power comes into play when there's deficiency on the part of the apostle. On the contrary, when the apostle is completely self-sufficient and can do it all by himself, God hangs back. So, uh, in, although Saint Paul is wrapped up to heaven, although he's seen secrets that no man may tell, (foreign language), secrets of God that it is not lawful to tell, uh, nevertheless, he still says it's a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And nobody who has any real idea of God can say anything else. He is terrifying, absolutely terrifying. Of course he's love, love, love, yes, but the two things are true, um, there are times when the, the fearfulness of God is exaggerated and the love is forgotten, but today, it's the fearfulness that's forgotten and the, and the love that... or you can't say it's exaggerated, but the love is completely misunderstood. So, you know, he will just forgive everything, it doesn't matter what we do wrong, and so on and so on and so on. It's absolute nonsense. All right. "It's a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God." Notice that Hebrews 10:31. And so all you who fear God, um, uh, all you, uh, all you who feel that great and small. Small, uh, is obviously the l- the, the doctors and the simple souls, the little souls and the great souls in a manner of speaking, but of course, even the great ones had better be like children if they want to enter the Kingdom of God. So the little souls and the great souls. "And I heard," verse 6, "Like a voice of a great crowd, and like a voice of many waters, and like a voice of great thunders saying, 'Hallelujah,' because the Lord M- Almighty our God has reigned." Um, "I heard like a voice of many waters," verse 6, um, the praise of God is like waters to purify those who are doing the praising, those... is like waters to purify those who praise. It's like great thunder to terrorize the devils. "I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of great thunder saying, 'Hallelujah for the Lord our God, the Almighty hath rained.'" 'Cause the Lord God... um, this is the fourth hallelujah, "Because the Lord, our God Almighty hath reigned." Um, as Lord, He is creator, God, He is the supreme good, He is our by the incarnation, He is ours by the incarnation. The Lord God, our... And fourthly, He is almighty to save us. Sometimes, you may remember distinguishes between titles like Deus, which belong to Him absolutely, and then Dominus, which belongs to Him relatively, relatively to those creatures over whom He is Lord. He would be Deus if He'd never created anybody, but He only becomes, He's only Dominus by, by having created in relation to His creatures. Is omnipotence an absolute or a relative title? Is omnipotent omnipotent? Yes. I would say yes. Yes, I would say yes. Um, I would say... Have, have you done the questions 20, question 25, isn't it? 25. What does Saint Thomas say about omnipotence? He derives it from what? Firstly, where does om- where does he derive God's omnipotence from? Steve McDonald?Where would you derive it from? Um, his essence (indistinct). Why, yes, but what of his essence? Um- Why is his essence all powerful? He's pure act. Yeah, pure act, yes. Pure act. Pure act has got clout. (laughs) He's got total and absolute and complete clout. Uh, yes, surely. Does anybody remember where... uh, uh, it probably, it derives it from pure act most likely, and that's what's... from which question, Steven McDonald? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10. Prior to 25. Uh. Pure act. Oh. Lord? Three, I think. Three. Four is the perfection which again derives from act. Pure act because he's not composite with anything else. There's absolutely no composition of God. The absolute simplicity of God. Now, question three is decisive for the whole treaties that they do. Practically, the, all of the rest, the treaties flows from question three. And question three, of course, flows from question two. But... All right. Uh, then God is omnipotent, surely it's an absolute title. Does anybody see that I can't, I can't recall, but I think so. I would think so. All right. Um, it belongs to his being. It belongs to his very being. Uh, let us rejoice and exalt, and let us gl- give glory to him because the wedding of the Lamb has come and the bride has prepared herself. Notice an interesting little point in verse six, at the back, "Hallelujah because the Lord, our God Almighty has reigned." In Hebrew, it appears that there are no tenses. There's no future, past, or present. You just have a verb. So that when you translate into a modern language in- starting with Latin or Greek, you immediately have to, in Latin or Greek, you have to put the time of that verb into future, past, or present. Whereas in Hebrew, it's timeless. So in Hebrew, this could be, it wasn't written in Hebrew, it was written in Greek. But in Hebrew it, it's the kind of thing that they used to say in Hebrew. Uh, the Lord God has reigned would be just as true to say he is reigning and he will reign. It's timeless. It's a timeless statement, really. He has reigned. Um, the Lord God is number one. It's a cause for rejoicing because, you know, you look around you the world today, you think, you might not think the Lord God is number one. You can easily think that, uh, you know, he's got pushed to one side. Um, blessed are those who, uh, keep believing that God is number one in this situation today because if you let go, like the great massive men are going to let go under the Anti-Christ, like the great massive men are letting go today, what's going to be... they're gonna, you know, the- such people will at least have to convert if they're gonna save their souls. So it's extraordinary that so few men live in light of what really matters and what is, what is absolutely true and what really matters. What alone really matters and what, so to speak, alone is absolutely true. Most men live completely regardless. It's in- unbelievable, but it's, it's the truth. Now, of course, with this affair in Washington, I mean, poof. It really looks as though, you know, evil is triumphant. What, what does morality matter? The president can trample all over any of the 10 Commandments and get away with it and be glorified and admired for it, praised for it. Why on earth stick around with the old morality? People... The decent guys sort of five, 10 years ago, they kept on talking about the moral majority of the United States, the moral majority in America. (blows raspberry) With this Clinton affair, it really looks like it's the immoral majority, and a, a number of good men are somewhat discouraged. Uh, it looks as though the Republican Party is swinging leftwards because there are no votes. There are no vote- it looks as though there are no votes on the right. The people are corrupting 'cause it's not just a question of mor- uh, politics, it's a question of morals. It's very much a question of morals. Uh, the people are corrupting. It's very grave. So, but still, uh, Jesus gonna win. (laughs) That's what people forget. Uh, the, uh, the wedding of the Lamb has come. The wedding of the Lamb with the Church immaculate, consisting of the elect. The wedding of the Lamb with the immaculate spouse of the Church, which is composed of the elect. The elect souls, the chosen souls. Um, the wedding of the Lamb with his immaculate spouse, and the bride has prepared herself. That, of course, is the Church. Uh, the elect who are cleansed of all vices of the old ma- of the old Adam-The bride is cleansed of all vices of the old Adam. She has pre- prepared herself and she's decked out in God's gifts. The bride is decked out in God's gifts. So Augustine says, "All merits are just God's... are just, are God's gifts." So the church immaculate, the spouse immaculate, consisting of the elect, cleansed of all vices of the old Adam and decked out in God's gifts. Verse eight, "And it is granted to her that she should clothe herself with fine linen, glittering and white, for the fine linen are the justifications of the saints." Linen is an earth-colored plant, which is whitened by repeated washing. Linen is an earth-colored plant whitened by repeated washing. And that's perfect image, of course, for the souls of the saints, all of whom have more or less struggled to reach their sanctity. Uh, so the linen is... represents the souls of the saints purified of sin by the ascetic struggle, by the repeated washing like linen. As linen is repeatedly washed so the souls of the saints are purified of sin by the struggle of asceticism. For the fine linen are the justifications of saints. As linen is white by repeated washing, the saints are saints by repeated struggling for virtue against the old Adam. And he said to me, uh, "Write..." The angel said to me, "Write, 'Blessed are they that are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb.'" And he says to me, "These words of God are true." And I fell down before his feet to adore him and he says to me, "See, thou do it not. I am there for the servant and of their brethren who have the testimony of Jesus. Adore God for the spirit of... for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." He said to me, "Write, uh, verba volant scripta manent. Write it down, uh, verba volant scripta manent." Spoken words fly away, verba volant scripta manent. Don't write down things that you don't want... you wouldn't like to see appear in the newspaper because someday it may. Uh, so write it down because it's, it's, it's solemn and it deserves to be written down. Blessed are those who are called to the feast of the wedding of the Lamb. Uh, blessed are not the wealthy, nor the learned, nor the powerful, but those who so live as to be eternally one with God. Blessed are the Catholics who live by their faith. They're not the impressive ones of this world, generally speaking. Blessed are not the wealthy, nor the learned, nor the powerful, but those who so live as to be eternally one with God. Where again is, uh, where, where do you get Saint Paul commenting how, what miserable creatures Catholics are liable to be? Sick, do you know? There's some of you, you want to know. Gardner, do you know? They're all bums and jerks and creeps, more or less, so quite some false language. Schmidt? Uh, where he's speaking of the, of the troubles that he's had to, to go through and he's auspiced all of his shipwrecks and- No, that's the end of 2 Corinthians. No, it's not there. So where what's it called at the college? It's, it's missions that are done throughout... between the disability, the ones that have much and even the ones that don't have much. Uh, maybe. Beginning at 1 Corinthians. Yes. Look at it because it's a passage worth knowing. Um...We preach Christ crucified, 1 Corinthians 23, under the Jews' assembly ... under the Gentiles foolishness, but unto them that are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For see your vocation, brethren, that there are not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble amongst you lot. The foolish things of the world God has chosen, your bums and jerks and creeps, that he may confound the wise, and the weak things of the world hath God chosen that he may confound the strong, and the base things of the world and things that are contemptible hath God chosen. And things that are not, that he might bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in His sight. So it's neither wealth nor learning nor power nor provision nor, nor rank nor whatever. So there you are. And same, we had that in James, uh, look at James again, the same thing. Uh, what, what, "Are there many rich amongst you," says Saint James, no, "What do the rich do to you lot?" They moats? Epistle of James, "What do the, what do the rich do to you lot?" They persecute you. Yeah, that's right, that was it. They persecute you. For goodness sakes, realize you keep all the best seats for them, hoping that they'll come in and drop a fat check in the collection plate, but all they do is cause you a lot of trouble. Uh, James 5, is it, or 2? Two. Two, yes, two I think rather. Um, "Do not the rich oppress you," verse 6, "by might? Do they not draw you before the judgment seat?" They keep on fighting lawsuits against you. "Do they not blaspheme the good name that is invoked upon you?" So the rich are not much use to you, so, you know, why should we give them... why should we look after them? Well, they are useful. I mean... (laughs) Just wait and see. Just wait and see. Uh, he said to me, "Write, 'Blessed are those who are called to the marriage...' To the feast of the marriage..." blah, blah, blah. Uh, blessed are those who are called. So blessed are those, not the wealthy nor the learned, nor the powerful. Blessed are those who so live as to be eternally one with God. It's obvious if you stop and think about it, but, but if you have the faith and you stop and think about it. But even those that have the faith are liable not to think about it. He said to me, "These words of God are true," to underline, underlined it again. And he said to me, "These words of God are true." Always the same point. And I fell down at his feet to adore him, and he said to me, "Do not do that. For I am thy fellows servant, and of your brothers who have the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the spirit of prophecy is... The testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." So in the Old Testament, angels might accept men's adoration of Dulia. That's, there's Larchia, which goes to God alone, Hyperdulia, which goes to the mother of God, and Dulia, which goes to the saints. Well, Dulia is the Greek word, uh, D-U-L-I-A. In the Old Testament, the angels might accept the adoration of men. But in the New Testament, since the incarnation... But not since the incarnation, which so elevated human nature. The angels can't accept the adoration of man ever since the incarnation, because our Lord took human nature. He didn't take angelic nature. So the angel doesn't accept the adoration of John. For the spirit... Adore God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. The, the spirit of prophecy in John, this is another reason, this is why the angel won't accept his adoration. The spirit of prophecy in John testifies that he is an adoptive son of God through Jesus, and therefore as an adoptive son of God, he should not be falling down at the feet of the angels. The spirit of prophecy in John testifies that he is an adoptive son of God through Jesus. See that who have the testimony of Jesus, adore God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. So John is prophesying with the whole book of the Apocalypse. The Spirit of God is in him. He's an adoptive son of God. He shouldn't be worshiping the angel. Verse 11, we move on into a new section. Um, this is, that was all the praise of heaven over the destruction of Babylon. Now we have the heavenly army in the back edition. Uh, "And I saw the heavens open, heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and with justice doth he judge and fight. And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many diadems, and he had a name written which no man knoweth but Himself."And He was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood and His name is called the Word of God. Uh... (clicks tongue) We move on. This section is the condemnation of the beast. The -- this whole section, the condemnation of the Antichrist. Um, I saw the heaven and behold a white horse. The horse is the immaculate humanity of Christ. The white horse is the immaculate humanity of Christ carrying its rider... the divine word for 33 years. (pause) The immaculate humanity of Christ carrying its rider... The ride- he who sat upon Him was called faithful and true. The rider is the Word of God for 33 years upon Earth, faithful to God and to men, truthful unlike men. (inaudible) This rider is truthful unlike the rest of them. Psalm 115, verse 11. "All men are liars." And with justice, He judges and fights. His eyes are like a flame of fire. The eyes of Jesus, like fire, burn away the sin of a soul. (pause) Like fire, they burn away the sin of a soul. They melt its ice. They melt its coldness. They light up its path. And they fire the soul with charity. They inflame the soul with charity. So those are all functions of fire. So that's why the eyes of our Lord are like a flame of fire, and on his head many diadems having a name written. (sneezes) Excuse me. The diadems are the many victories of Jesus over the world and the devil. The many victories of Jesus over the world and the devil. And the... He has a name written which nobody knows except Himself. The name of Jesus has a power which is fully known to God alone. And His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on His head were many diadems. And He had a name written which no man knoweth but Himself. The name of Jesus has a power which is known fully to God alone. What saint is associated with the name of Jesus? Or there are more than one, probably. Who especially promoted the devotion to the name- used the name of Jesus? Saint Bernard of Siena. Yes, that's right, Saint Bernard of Siena. Yes. That's a voice from the dead around the corner. (laughs) You might wonder what's going on, you know. Uh... (clicks tongue) Verse 13. And He was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood and His name is called the Word of God. The garment is the human flesh of Christ... sprinkled in His own blood. He was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood and His name is called the Word of God. Um, s- th- see, His human flesh sprinkled in His own blood, yet still this is God's own word. So y- you might think if He's sprinkled in blood, He's not very powerful and not very divine. He's just a, a victim like many other victims, but this is the Word of God. His nome- His name is called the Word of God. Verse 14. And the armies there are in heaven followed Him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white- fine linen, white and clean. And out of His mouth proceedeth a sharp two-edged sword that with it He may strike the nations, and He shall rule them with a rod of iron and He treadeth the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of God the Almighty. And He hath on His garment and on His thigh written, 'King of Kings and Lord of Lords.'The, uh, the armies that are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in white and clean linen. The armies are the martyrs actually in heaven, the Christians by desire in heaven. The martyrs actually in heaven and the Christians by desire in heaven. The white horses represent chastity. The linen represents justifications. Verse eight told us that fine linen are the justifications of the saints. The linen represents the justifications of the saints. Linen white and pure. The white means freedom from all error in the faith. And the pure means... freedom from all concupiscence in morals. (clears throat) The, uh, armies are the martyrs in heaven, the Christians who desire to be in heaven, the white horses chastity, the linen, the justifications, white, freedom of the intelligence from error, pure freedom of the will from immorality. 15, and from his mouth proceeds a wi- uh, procedeth a sharp two-edged sword that with it he may strike the nations. The sword is the word of God issuing from the Savior's mouth. The word of God issuing from the Savior's mouth. Two edged... to prune the good and to cut down the wicked. Where, where does our Lord talk about pruning the good? 30? Well done. That's right, John 15. That's it. "I am the vine." Um, that's it. "Every branch that in me beareth not fruit..." Uh, "Every branch that beareth not fruit," and then, "Every branch that beareth not fruit, He may cut that it may bear more fruit." John 15, hold on. Let me find that quote. Um, "If anyone abide not in me, he shall be cast forth as a branch and shall wither and they shall gather him up and cast him into the fire and be burneth." Um, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. Uh, what is this? Oh, there it is. Right up front. "Every branch in me that beareth not fruit... I am the true vine and my Father is the husbandman." It's right at the beginning of 15. "Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, He will take away, and everyone that beareth fruit, He will purge it that it may bring forth more fruit." The modern word for purge is prune, obviously. He will prune. So that's why the, the, the, even the good guys get what looks like rough treatment, but in, it's for a completely different purpose.