(insects buzzing) Dazzling. (audience laughing) Different. Garish. (audience laughing) Uh... this year, the last of... it's a five-year cycle, isn't it? The last of four years of the New Testament, um, Matthew, John, St. Paul, um, basically the Apocalypse, mostly the Apocalypse. Uh, I would like to go into the, the Catholic Epistles, as they're called. We had a look at Acts, the Apostles, together with St. Paul, but the seven letters that, um... three of John, two of Peter, uh, one of Jude and one of James, the seven epistles. There's a lot in them. Uh, they're not, uh, they're not too difficult, although St. Peter is quite dense. Uh, Peter's Epistles are quite dense. There's obviously a lot in the first epistle of St. John. There's not much apparent shape in them. When I say apparent, that's because the Lord God is not bound to write in (Latin). There's a divine substance there with no human order, per se. But the bulk of the year will be the Book of the Apocalypse, uh, which is very difficult. I mean, it's, you know, it's, it's not easy. Uh... let me give you firstly a perfectly or- and, and I guess perfectly ordinary, but thoroughly, and I think, pretty reliable introduction, which comes from Renan's manual. So it's a manual introduction, which I haven't even compared it- (laughing) -with other manuals in order to cull what I think is the best, I'm just giving you more or less Ren- Renan, Renan. Um, the Apocalypse obviously deals in mystery. Uh, this is not Renan- (coughs) -so it's, it may not be anything worth copying down. Uh, it deals in mystery. Uh, it deals a great deal in the future, it's the future of the Church. It's written on patents about 100 by Saint John. That's what tradition says is undoubtedly true. Um, 100, about 100 AD, it's the last book of the Bible, or the last to be written. Uh, it's a great deal about the future, the future of the Church, but it doesn't do us good to know the exact future. For instance, if we knew exactly the day we were dying, going to die, if we were, knew the exact day we were going to die, it would be very, it would be a severe temptation to, you know, live with the world and enjoy the world until the day before, and then suddenly make a monumental act of contrition and, uh, trust to, you know... I don't know if you made it really, but you'd make it, you'd make it so that God would have difficulty. I mean, God is not mocked, you know, but, but I could, I would really reckon I could mock God if I would... That, that's why I w- I mean, I would, I would fool around until the day before, and then I would rely on making a good act of contrition. Whether God would give me to make that good act of contrition, that's exactly what's in question. And that's why God doesn't tell me the day I'm going to die, because the on- it, it's not at all sure that if I tried to fool him like that, and that's exactly what's wrong with this, I might not succeed. You know, uh, uh, Voltaire, after a horrible life of fighting the Church, um, fell very, very seriously ill and made an act of contrition, I think. I think he was reconciled with the Church and then he got well again, so he, all, he had, began cranking up all this villainy again. Then he fell seriously ill the second time, and that time, he couldn't get to an act of contrition because he was in a state of jubilee. It was just rage and self-destructive despair the second time, I think. He tried to fool God. I mean, he, obviously God saw his heart and that act of... If the act of repentance the first time had been sincere, God might have, might well have allowed him to die. You know? God is the master. God is the master. So God doesn't give us a timetable for the future, and when he tells the story of the Church, he's not gonna tell it, you know, so that you can read it like a ra- a railway timetable or an airplane timetable, 'cause that wouldn't be good for us, which is why the whole thing is wrapped up in mystery. It's, it's, these are symbols, the dragon, the woman, the lamb, the elders, the, uh, there, it, it's wrapped up in symbols, uh, which are uncertain of application, or of uncertain application. You don't know exactly what applies when and where. Uh, and the in- and the interesting thing is that many of the symbols are of such general, are of general application, they can apply to more than one situation. For instance, the abomination of desolation, that's a phrase I'm not, that's actually originally in Daniel, I believe. The abomination of desolation applies to Antiochus Epiphanes, where I think it may be spoken of the first time in Daniel. Daniel is the most apocalyptic of the Old Testament books, the most futurish, with the, one of the most prophecies of the future, and the most, uh, quotations probably in the Book of the Apocalypse.... uh, the Abomination of Desolation applies to Antiochus Epiphanes, which is about 156 BC. It applies to, uh, 70 AD, the destruction of Jerusalem. You certainly can apply the Abomination of Desolation to the (indistinct), present on the altar. There, there's a false sacrifice, the destruction of the sacrifice on the altar. And it certainly applies again to the end of the world. So there's an example of... It's not exactly a, one of the symbols of the Book of the Apocalypse, but it's an example of one of those prophecies which has more than one application. And, and even if you hit upon one application which definitely applies, it doesn't exclude others. I'll give you a pagan comparison which is absolutely not in the same class. Wagner's Ring of the Nibelung, or Ring of the Nibels, uh, which was composed... The music, the words were composed in 1849, and the music was composed from 1854 through to about 1876. And it's a, it's a massive piece, four operas, and Wagner wrote the words himself, and then he wrote the music himself. It's a, it's a massive piece, and it, it's kind of the history of the world. It's, it's a presentation of the very beginnings of the world. Some of you may remember, we watched it a few years ago, not that many. How many of you, uh, wa- watched it, or pa- watched part of it several, several years ago, a few years ago? One, two, three, four. Yes, it's just very few. It's just the, just the topmost years. It's an interesting piece. It's absolutely not necessary to salvation that you should know anything about Wagner's Ring, but it is interesting. Uh, it's one of the greatest... It is a great vision. It's a false vision. But there's a lot of truth in it. What is false is not true. What is true is not false. And it's... You, you mustn't say, "It's all trash," and you mustn't say, "It's all wonderful," because it's neither all trash nor all wonderful. It's a mixture. But in any case, uh, it's cast in the form of a myth. Uh, Wagner, to say what he wanted to say, in the, with the generality and depth that he wanted to say it, went back to myth, and he revived, like, the German myths. And he went in amongst the myth books, and the myth books are not like Scripture. It's not clear, and there's not... There's not a definite canon with no contradiction. You and I know there can be no... There cannot be contradiction in one part of the Bible with another. If it looks like contradiction, there's something we don't know. But there's no real contradiction because there's not a, a word of falsehood in Scripture. There cannot be. Okay, so there's no real contradiction, but a number of the myths tell the same story in a different way, and they contradict one another. It's, it's a, it's a mess in a way and absolutely speaking. Yet there's a... There's a whole lot of truths about human nature and even about history wrapped up in these myths. And anyone who goes and rewrites the myths goes in... You know, he can pick and choose how he likes, and he can reconstruct how he likes. A famous collection of German fairy tales is, of course, the Brothers Grimm. Um, you can get those even today. They're reprinted very good. Jacob Grimm, I forget who the other is. Anybody know- Wagner. Wilhelm, I think. Wilhelm and Jacob Grimm. Very fine. They, they were German scholars about the 18... Again, I think about the 1840s, and they just collected all of these fairy tales, and they made a compendium. They put it together. They put it all together, uh, put these fairy tales together and did a very good job. And that's not, not the same thing as the Ring. The Ring is a, is a huge story from beginning, the beginning. It's supposedly the beginning of the world to the end of the world, from the depths of the Rhine when Alberich steals the Rhine gold down to the crashing of Valhalla in ruins. It's from the begin- the construction of Valhalla to the destruction of Valhalla. It's a, it's a tremendous vision. Um, but since it's a myth, then it's symbolic. Now for instance, Wotan is the father god, and, um, there's a production, rece- recent production in, in Bayreuth, I think about 10, 15 years ago, which we've got upstairs on tape, which shows the father god as a 19th century capitalist, as a capitalist baron, as a money baron. It's good. There's, there's a real... You get a real flash of sort of recognition. You can see many features of Wotan in the capitalist robber baron, so to speak, the h- the, the prince of the... The... One of those kings of business and industry in the last century. There's a lot of comparison. There's a lot of comparison, and you, you can get a kick. You get a real kick out of watching Wotan being portrayed as a 19th century robber baron. But the robber baron is absolutely not the beginning and end of Wotan, so to speak. Wagner has succeeded in... He's just a pagan, and there was nothing... Uh, there was not much Catholic in him, although it was Catholics who best understood him at the end of his days. It was Catholics who received him in Catholic Bayreuth. It was Catholics who built his theater. It was the Catholic king who patronized him and so on. But Catholics best understood him. It's probably fair to say, but he wasn't Catholic. He definitely wasn't Catholic, but he did have a grip on human nature. Okay, well, his symbols are of general application. They're much... Uh, Wotan is much more than just a robber baron, but if you see the robber baron, there are many features of Wotan in the robber baron. In other words, Wagner has got the universal truths pegged in such a way that they can apply to a whole lot of different situations in different times, and that's the advantage of myth, its generalness, and that's the... That's a, a pagan comparison for the breadth and applicability of symbols in the symbols, S-Y-M-B-O-L-S, of symbols in the apocalypse. And it's just been... I've just... I've got most of the way through a very interesting book by that Argentinean priest, Maggio. Uh, not Maggio, the other one. Castellani, very good, Father Castellani, who died, I think, in the 1970s. He was a Jesuit. He was banned and crushed and smashed by the Jesuits. Very smart man because he saw what was coming in the Church. He, he really-... was one of those priests who could see, and that's why they crushed him so actually. And he, he, and he has written a book about the Apocalypse and he takes, you know, an individual line here and there. He says, "This, th- th- this is what this prophecy is about." Well yes, but that's not what it's exclusively about. And the temptation with people who write about the Apocalypse is to think, you know, if we say, "Well, the five kings are those five emperors of Rome, the seven heads are these seven nations of this time..." Well yes, but then they may well be seven nations of some other time. It's only when the, when the end of the wor- when the world comes to an end, that we're going to be able to look back and see what each symbol most applied to. But I think even at the end of the world, we will only say to ourselves, "This is, this is what the symbol most applied to." But that didn't exclude it also applying here and there and there. So, the, the Apocalypse is a book fertile in...
... but, um, it would confuse me if I did read too many. Um, I'm not on that kind of brain. But, uh, so I haven't seen what they've all written about it, but the... every time I seem to come across a commentary, they seem to sort of zero in on this particular application. Nobody's e- as though nobody's ever seen this application before and, and all of the applications probably have some truth in them. And yet, that's not what it's about, so to speak. It's much more than that. It's less than that and it's more than that. So, uh, get used to, you know, being mystified. You know, before you start ?get. And so, I... the best commentary I know, which is the one I'm going to give you, is by a French Benedictine monk called Dom Molio. He's very good. He took up the Bible and commented. Dom Molio. I don't think he's translated anything into English. You won't be able to get him, I don't think. Oh. I once met him in Paris though, um, back, way back in the 1970s. I think he died in the late 1970s. I once visited him in his cell in Paris with another seminarian at the time . We knew him. Um, I think a very, very, very humble man. Very unassuming. Very, very good. Uh, his kind of Scripture commentary is despised today. It's not considered really Scripture commentary at all because he doesn't go into all of the dusty details. He refuses to go into the dusty details, although he, he's learned. He's re- read all of the saints and all of the fathers and all of the classics. He's read them. But he won't do that modern stuff of, you know, mustard seeds are two millimeters when they grow and then when the mustard tree grows to two kilometers and that really is, uh, uh, it's that, um, million-ish, uh, expansion which is what the, the Saint Matthew had in mind. I mean, you know. It's, it's... you've heard me on that kind of subject before. You may or may not agree with me and you, you may have the misfortune to meet some of these dust characters and they're a damn nuisance because they do know their dusty stuff and they are dogs in a manger. They destroy people living off Scripture. They stop people living off Scripture. They, they, they turn the Bible into a kind of dusty chamber where you have to put on a gas mask in order to be able to survive because you're, you're just dealing in dust all the time. You're kicking up dust all the time. And it's unlivable and it's, it's no use, it's very little use for spiritual life, for the intellectual life, or any other kind of life. Very clever trick of the devil. Very clever trick of the devil to divert the Scripture commentary into this kind of useless, in my opinion, useless stuff. But they, they are arrogant. They are proud of what they do. They really think that that is what Scripture commentary is about and they shut everybody else, they despise everybody else, kick them out and then stop anybody else nourishing themselves with, with Scripture. They don't nourish themselves and they stop anybody else nourishing themselves. They're dogs in a manger. And they don't think so. They think that they are the bees' knees and the cat's whiskers. So, you know. Um, they're miserable characters and producers of misery but they hold, in the Modernist church, they hold sway. Uh, and that's one reason why the Modernist church went, might, went Modernist because people were cut off. The Catholics were cut off, like, cut off or as good as cut off from Scripture. You may meet some of these characters. They will probably know much more about Scripture than you do. They will wheel out all of these arguments and if you try to get into an argument, you're certainly gonna learn from me or certainly not, you certainly won't have learned from me the answers to all of their arguments. No way. But, uh, you know, the courses I give on Scripture, it's, it's basic, I hope. Sufficient to make you know Scripture some and love Scripture much, I hope. I hope it's enough for that. That's the, really the purpose of the exercise, that you should be able... that you should have some knowledge of the sacred text and some love of it so that you will go back on your own and so that you will be able to nourish yourselves on it. That's the purpose. I, I'm have no pretensions to scholarship at all. So, you know, uh, if you run into these scholars, they will shoot you down at the drop of a hat. If they realize, especially if they realize that you are actually feeding off Scripture, they'll do their best to stop it. It's instinctive. And you won't have the answers. Walk away is my, is my suggestion. Don't bother to get into it with them because what they're doing is, is, uh, murdering by dust. Don't bother with them. But, by all means, by all means, I really hope that you... and you're not, you're not like... God doesn't want you to be scholars today either. He doesn't want you... I don't... he surely doesn't want you to be intellectually . He wants you to be priests. Priests able to look after souls and sustain the souls, keep souls going in this incredible drama that, uh, is nearly at the end of the world and, uh, the collapse of the Church and so on and so on. That's what He wants and, um, my humble hope would be that, you know, what I give you, at least maybe would you hold out that, to do that. So, uh, that's... For instance, there's a, there's a somewhat famous commentary of the Apocalypse, Apocalypse by a Swiss Dominican around the turn of the century called Pere Allo, A-double L-O. I think he was Swiss and Castalani is scorned. I think Castalani's basically right. I really do. And he's a dust merchant. It's all impeccable, it's all scholared, there's footnotes and so you can... you can't breathe any longer in all of this kind of thing, you know. I mean, uh... Ugh. I wouldn't bother. I, I don't think I'd bother even to read Allo. But if, you know, and if, if somebody said, "What?"Your con-... Your scripture s-... Your scripture teacher hasn't even read Aloe, and you're pretending to be the apocalypse. No. Uh, uh, uh, uh, various... you know, some scholars... Every now and again a scholar, especially in philosophy, asks to come and teach at the seminary, and I usually reply to him, "Dear Professor, thank you so much for your noble offer to come to the aid of us mental delinquents, of us mentally challenged, uh, you know, dinosaurs, uh, dinosaur cubs at, at the seminary, I'm afraid we're really far too mentally challenged to be worthy of your talents. Uh, you know? So, uh, with much regret, I have to say that I really don't think, you know, this is the place for you to deploy all your abilities and learning, so..." You know? That's what I say, because these scholars, they don't have the same angle on it as the, as the Church, even if they're Catholic scholars. Out there, e- everything tends to get relativized, you know, especially history, and, uh, even in philosophy, it's rather more the history of philosophy. They, they, they're not coming at it, "There's a truth. There's one truth. There's a truth in every single philosophical question that can be raised. There is a truth. It's a science. Uh, our business is simply with that truth, and, and all the rest, but just got to learn it." That's not their attitude, you know? I mean, they live off these quarrels between scholars, and disputes, and arguments, and counterarguments. He has nothing. It's a different perspective, so I just u- usually say, "We're far too stupid for you to come and teach here," and so usually they back off at that point because they don't want to come and teach people who are particularly stupid, so, you know- (laughs) ... that's fine. That's just fine if they back off, you know? But it's a different, it's a different angle. Remember, you know, um, the s- purpose of the society is to produce priests, and, you know, the, the, the jewels of the society are its seminaries, but what is a seminary? And a seminary can't be an end of it- in itself. A seminary is to train priests. Yes, but that... What are, what's a priest for? If a seminary is for priests, fine, but what is a priest for? And what is a priest for today? I mean, you know. And, uh, it's very clear from, you know, the archbishop's example, the archbishop's example, as well as his, um, uh, what he put into practice, his own personal theology, but also what he p- put into practice in the seminary, he wanted to make priests that, you know, would look after souls, with good doctrine and with pastoral zeal, with a solid doctrine. Didn't have to be very learned or very complicated, it had to be solid, a solid doctrine with a concern for souls, to get out there and look after souls. So, you know, you need to know as much scripture as will s- strengthen your own piety and doctrine. It's a... Give y- give you a doctrine that will, that will fit with your piety, a, a s- solid doctrine and a solid piety, neither of them sentimental, and that will get out on the road and will hold the road. You know, you get... You can go out on the road, and even if there are pits and holes and, you know, potholes in the road, and you know, you crash and bump, the thing is not going to fall to pieces. That's, that's, that's the size of it, you see? It's a, it's a fairly, uh, you know, limited, and practical, and down-to-earth ambition, but I think it's an ambition which corresponds to the situation we're in today. (laughs) Uh, the devil is very, very clever. He's got 1,000 ways of sidelining servants of God and sidelining the salvation of souls, distracting, diverting, and stopping the salvation of souls. He is terrible, terrible. So, I will give you this introduction from Emmanuel, which will cover e- the usual basic questions about where a book is from, what, where it's going, what it contains, and so on. And then we will go into Domonion, and, uh, the, the advantage of Domonion is that he kind of stays at the symbolic level. He doesn't say, "This applies to this, this applies to this, this applies to this." He, he rather, you know, gives you the cross-relations with the rest of scripture and the cross-relations between various parts of the Book of the Apocalypse itself, I think, and he sta-... he's liable to stay somewhat at the level of symbol. So, if you want all of the... an application, you're going to be disappointed if you read Domonion. On the other hand, if you want to see... if you want to understand the symbolic language of these... at the level of symbol, uh, then he's... then, of course, he's... then he's very good. So, you'll see. You'll see. I think he's, I think he's the best. Castellani has some fascinating insights. I may throw in a bit of Castellani here and there, but, um, but he, he's not broad enough, and he's not prof-... He's, he's... He doesn't pretend to be anything other than kind of a brilliant. There are brilliances, but the ecce- but the eccentric doesn't cover the basics kind of, whereas Domonion is steady and covers the whole ground. Uh, introduction, one, the title of the book and its literary genus, G-E-N-U-S, which means the fairy tale, black comedy, uh, social comment. That's a genus. Novel, lyrical poem, epic poem, uh, these are genera, the, the broad kind of literature that the Apocalypse is. Uh, two, unity and sources. Unity and sources. Remember, John was just a, an adolescent bishop when he began. He really didn't know all that much. Now, ever- the scholars go over every single word 33 times, you know? Wh- (whooshes) you know, what is scholarship, do you know? Three, canonicity and authenticity, the fact that it belongs to the canon of the Bible and who really wrote it. Who was the author? Authenticity.... four, date (static noise) and place of composition. That's rather more straightforward. Five, this is frankly, it's all a bit relativizing but addressees and purpose. And, you know, what Saint John's purpose is one thing, but Saint John's purpose is peanuts compared with God's purpose. This is God's word, not just John's word. To concentrate too much on John's ac- th- w- who he was writing to or why he was writing to them, it, you know, if you concentrate too much on that, you forget God's purpose in this. So five addressees, you know, there's the purpose people that the a- per- that the letter was addressed to, and the purpose of the letter. Six, the text. That's a very easy one. And seven, theological teaching. That's interesting. Theological teaching. Uh, God, Christ, Holy Ghost, angels, church, last times. That's- that's, of course, there's a- there's a lot of theological teaching. It is the word of God. The Book of the Apocalypse does teach a good deal of theology. Eight, systems of interpretation. That's really what I've been talking about. And he's got six. Reminds me of Hamlet, mythological, contemporary historical, eschatological, historical ecclesiastical, historical eschatological. Does anybody remember the piece of Hamlet, where, where abouts is Hamlet? You're damn gone? Do you re- you had- it looked like you had your hand up. Ah, (static noise) I didn't. Uh, uh, do you remember, does anybody remember where in Hamlet? Yeah, there's a- In Hamlet, I'm sorry? (static noise) Yes. Well done. Go on. And he says, Hamlet asked the players, "What can you do?" Or somebody asks Hamlet what can they do. And Hamlet then says? I'm not sure, but I think he says, "This is your last chance." (static noise) That's it. We can do historical, historical comical, tragical comical, tragical comical historical. (laughs) The- the- the- the chief player goes through it all. Yeah. That's it. This is a bit like that, so... And that's the last section. So they're down to eight. Let me get it right. Number one, l- title and literary genus. Now, there's a kind of literature we're talking about. Is the ah, apocalypse meant to be comedy? Is it meant to be tragedy? Uh, what is, what genus does it fit in? Is it an epistle? Is it epistolary? Title, one, title, two, literary genus. Apocalypse comes from the Greek word apokalyptai, meaning to discover. Kalyptai, kalyptai is to conceal and apokalyptai is to unconceal or to discover. The apocalypse is a kind of discovery or a revelation. In the New Testament, it's translated- well, it's translated by Revelatio, the revealing, the discovering, the un- the uncovering. (coughs) Sorry. Apocalypse means uncovering. In the New Testament, it means a revelation. A revelation. I, in other words, a manifestation- a man- a manifestation of Christ as Lord and judge. Under title, might add three-word summary of the Book of the Apocalypse. Three-word summary of the Book of Avo- did I give you that the other day? Yes, I did. Jesus gonna win. All right. You don't need to... If you- (laughs) ... remember it, you don't need to put it down. If you remember it, you don't need to put it down. Two, literary genus. Do all of you know how to spell literary? L-I-T-E-R-A-R-Y, literary. Genus, Je- uh, Darryl? Uh, Jesus wins. Jesus gonna win. (laughs) Oh, you weren't there. You didn't know. Yes, of course. Jesus gonna win. That's what this book reveals. It's a revelation that Jesus gonna win, which is a mighty consolation to poor Catholics who keep on losing. Anyone could think Catholics were losers, but the apocalypse says we're winners. So okay, we do need to be told. Two, literary genus. Um, Jewish, uh, the Jewish apocalypses, apocalypses, the plural of apocalypse, used pseudonyms, that's false names, assumed names. Used pseudonyms, esoterism, that's special symbols that are only known to a few. Uh, esoterism. Esoteric, it means something that the crowd don't know, but only a few select people know. Esoterism and symbolism to write about the last times. Jewish apocalypses used pseudonyms and esoterism and symbolism to write of the last times. From, so there were, there are many apocalypses from between 300 BC and 200 AD, there were many of this- this kind of writing. There were many others besides John writing an apocalypse. These Jewish apocalypses followed on the Old Testament prophets. They followed on the heels of the Old Testament prophets. Notably Isaiah, Ezekiel, Joel, and especially Zachary and Daniel. But there's a difference between prophets and the apocalypses, the prophetic writers, the, we should call them that, the prophets and the apocalyptic writers, these Jews writing apocalypses.... there's a difference, a serious difference. So the apocalyptic writers drew on the prophets. They set themselves up kind of in the line of the prophets. Why do you think there were many apocalypses 3- 300 BC to 200 AD? Anybody guess? I can guess. I don't know. I do not have lessons. Hurkle? (Inaudible). Well, that's 70 AD to 200 AD. That's not 300 BC to 200 AD. 300 BC to 200 AD. No, the Maccabees were only 160 or so. I mean, I don't know. I don't know, but I'm guessing. Garble? (Inaudible). Yes, you see? That, that and the, when our Lord came, the, the Jews were actually expecting the Messiah. They were expecting him. So if they, you know, within 500 years, they may have expected him some time beforehand, and then some time after, because the prophecy in Daniel is not exactly clear. Uh, 49 weeks? Who knows that that's each, each day is seven years, so that makes 49 times... Et cetera, et cetera. You know, I mean, these things are not... The things aren't clear. And that, I mean, God had reasons for not making it clear. Why did God not make it so clear, clear, clear that nobody could be any, any mistake about the Messiah? Summer? (Inaudible). Yes. See, less merit if you pick it up, and less demerit if you turn it down. That's always in God's case, God, God, how God works. I've quoted you that famous quotation from Pascal, "There's always enough light to enlighten people of goodwill," Yeah. "... and enough darkness to throw off people of bad will," et cetera. That's in all his works. Um... I mean if anybody looked, say, humanly at the precise and vice percentage, there's easily enough reason to think, you know, just a bunch of klutzes. Uh, on the other hand, if you've got goodwill and you've any, any, any sense of the truth at all, you can see that this is where the truth lives, even if they are klutzes. It's, it's, there's darkness and light. Peah... I think I quoted the example that Peah Barual was like that, and yet he was extremely human. And, um, you know, he had defects as, uh, he, he... But, you know, for anybody who looked twice and thought twice, he's a man of God. He was a man of God, and yet here were all of these human defects, you know, to put off anybody who was ready to be put off. So, that's the way God works, if you understand. So, so, uh, God f- souls discerned correctly with an upright heart, the John with a... Especially when John the Baptist said, "This is the Lamb of God." I mean, it was clear enough to them, and yet the, but the high priests and scribes, they were not of goodwill. They were not of upright hearts, and so there was plenty of darkness, enough to throw them off. "He's just a carpenter. Comes from Galilee. Come on." You know? All of that kind of thing. So, lo- uh, so it wasn't clear, clear, clear exactly when the Messiah would arrive. But it was about the time, and the Jews were expecting it. So that, that's my guess why there could be apocalyptic writings sp- spread over 500 years. I, I may, may easily be wrong, but... Right. The differences. A prophet addressed contemporaries as a preacher. A prophet addressed contemporaries as a preacher using the future to influence the present. The apocalyptic writer speaks of the last times. With the prophet, the inspired word is more frequent than the vision. You read any of the prophets, uh, Isaiah, Daniel, Ezekiel, even Daniel, the prophesies of the future don't... Even in Daniel, the prophesies of the future are less than half the complete book, although in Daniel the proportion is probably highest of prophecy, of, of telling what's coming in the future. In the prophets, the inspired word is more frequent than vision of the future. And his visions are drawn from reality. Ezekiel's loincloth, growing rotten. That's the people of Israel, wrapped around the Lord God and gone corrupt. The pot, the prostitute. The, the, the, the, it, it, examples are drawn from reality. Yeah. The visions are drawn from reality. In the apocalyptic writers, the vision is the rule, and the symbols are unreal. In the prophetic writers, visions of the future are the exception. You get these little minor prophets, you usually have two or f- of three chapters. At least two will be describing the misbehavior, and then at the very most, one will be a, a hope of the future, the Messiah. More like it's t- two and a half against a half. Um, the prophets, when they castigate... The, the, the prophet, the Old Testament prophets, when they castigate what's going on, in order to give people a fillip at the end, to give them a rise, to give them a, a hope, they, they, they then add a vision of the future, which is the Messiah will come, and he will straighten us out, and he will be good, and so on and so on. But the, the w- the, the real emphasis is on what's being done naughtily in the present. In the apocalyptics, it's all the future. The visions are the rule, and the symbols are unreal. The dragon. It's, uh... The woman in the desert, going off into the desert and giving birth to a child. I- it's not really real. I mean, uh... And then the, the, the river springing up and swallowing the child, trying to swallow the child. Okay. It's symbolic. It's not... (clears throat) Um, the prophets are nationalists or nationalistic. The apocalyptics are universalists. That's a s-Of course, the, the old wo- the Old Testament prophets are, are universal, really. It's the word of God. It means all men of all times and all places, but still, the accent in the prophet himself is Judah and Jewish people. That's as the prophet himself sees it. But the apocalyptics are expressly Universalists. St. John shares certain features with these apocalyptic writers, (coughs) but he rises far above them. I mean, this is- he's the word of God. None of the others were as he is, so he's inspired, isn't he? He rises far above them. They're fabricating. He is inspired. Again, uh, the, the consideration of the Genesis is, oh man, that's, that's marvelous scripture scholarship, because it was a, it's the I think it's, they call it. It's the, the German way of the G- of some bad German scripture schol- scholars who, who said, you know, um, uh, "Well, if there's a resurrection at the end of the Gospel, this is because the resurr- the Gospels are all telling a story, and every story, by the nature of things, has to have a happy ending. So of course, the Gospels had to have a resurrection at the end of the After the Passion." You know? That's, that's the way in which it belongs to the genre. That's the French word, G- G-E-N-R-E. Every time you quote a foreign word, it impresses the university. It impresses the , the ordinary, poor, dumb, dumb, dumbsomething, because, of course, the dumbsomethings don't know a foreign language, so they're impressed when you sort of throw around these foreign words. "He's gotta be a scholar. He's gotta be deep 'cause he's, he knows a foreign language. You know what I mean? Really. I c- I don't know a foreign language. I can't learn a foreign language, so, you know, he's got, well, he's gotta be smarter than I am." So, you, you, you call it a, a genre and then everybody gets impressed because it's a French word, you know. It's just the, the, the genesis of the Latin word, it's the same word in French and Latin. So this business of sort of classifying something by its, what kind of literature it is, that pegs it and of, and it, of course, the Gospels are a story, therefore they're bound to have a happy ending. See, you see how you relativize and undermine? (coughs) Really. However, there's some interest in what it says there about the literary genus. There's some interest. (coughs) But, you know, of course, Saint John rises far above it. He's inspired, but these, these characters are lost. They've got lost in human study. They don't have the faith. That's the real problem. They don't have the faith. Two, unity and sources. So this is all a bit dusty, but it, there are s- there is some interesting information. But never forget, this, this book is inspired. It's the word of God. That's the most important thing to know about it. Mysterious though it is, it's the word of God. One unity, two sources, obviously. Sub one unity, sub two sources. The unity... I mean, you know, who on Earth would think of questioning whether the book is written by one author? You know? Nobody, nobody ever dreamed of asking that question until modern times. Nobody dreamed of asking it. But you know, they cut Isaiah in two just like the Jews did. I mean, there's, uh, there's 1 to 39 and then verses, Chapters 40 to 66, only they go wi- they go better than the Jews. The Jews only cut Isaiah with a wooden sword in two pieces, but the modern critics cut Isaiah into now three or four or five pieces. There's the Proto-Isaiah and then there's the Deuto-Isaiah. That's all Greek. Oh, my God. Then there's the Trito-Isaiah, and then there's the... (coughs) I mean, you know. Ugh. Ugh. I don't know why we shouldn't go straight to . I don't know. We'll see. But there's, there is some interesting information in those four Gospels, you know.