Introduction to the Apocalypse. (papers rustling) We saw... We were last seeing whether it's written by Saint John, and the answer is yes. External arguments, no real problem until the Millenarists started, the people who believe in the 1,000-year rule of Jesus Christ here on Earth. No real problem until they began misusing the text of the Apocalypse. And then, um, uh, the, the, the... In order to cut the Millenarists down or cut them off at the pass, it was denied that it was really written by Saint John. Or they would, they look for arguments and say that... But that's only a shadow upon the otherwise unanimous external opinion that it's Saint John. Internal arguments, the author is a Jew living in Asia Minor, with great authority, a hatred of God's enemies, calling himself John, and exiled on Patmos. There aren't many people that have all of those features, other than John the Evangelist. Objection, mostly of Saint Dennis of Alexandria. They're not modern objections, in fairness. They're ancient objections. Saint Dennis, who was worried about the, the Millenarist's misuse of the, the Apocalypse. That the fourth gospel is synonymous, whereas again, it's synonymous with the Apocalypse states its author. That's just the... As for the letters, it's obvious who it is. The Gospel, he doesn't want to put himself forward, but in the Apocalypse, which is visions, he needs to put his authority forward. In the Gospels, he's trying to keep himself out, so to speak, though he nevertheless says it... Uh, uh, "These are things that I saw." The disciple whom Jesus loved and so on. He, he's rather discreet about it, but he says enough to back his Gospel that, um, the Apocalypse is, needs rather more obvious authority to it, so he comes out all guns blazing, "This is John, this is John, this is John." Two, the style of the Gospel is flowing. The Apoc- uh, the style of the Apocalypse is jagged. There, there are considerable similarities alongside the, any dissimilarities of style. The grammar is more correct in the Gospel, less correct in the Apocalypse. Yes, but the writer of the Gospel is still Jewish, and as for the Apocalypse, the Old Testament influence explains the larger number of Jewish expressions, and then there are similar grammatical particularities in each. The vocabulary are very different, yes, but there are also remarkable similarities while the contents and so on explain the differences. The doctrine, fifthly, the doctrine are very different. Not substantially, no. They, they... The doctrine covers different ground in each case, but it's not contradictory. The angels naturally play a larger part in the Apocalypse than they do in the Gospel because the angels are the ministers of the carrying out of God's execution on currently c- carrying out, uh, God's decrees through the world. Uh, the last things, um, just appear in one or two places in the Gospels, but they are the prime preoccupation of the Apocalypse. Christ is a nice guy in the Apostles. He's a nasty guy in the Apocalypse. Uh, that's a false contrast. He's nice and nasty in both. Uh, and then the Jews, they're bad guys in the Gospel, whereas Ju- Jerusalem and Israel are good guys in the Apocalypse. Answer, Jerusalem and Israel are standing for the Catholic Church, not for the Annas Caiaphas Jews in the Apocalypse. Four, big four, date and place of composition. This is of a certain interest, of a certain interest, date and place. Roman 1D. Take one was title and, and literary classification, two, unity in sources, three, the fact that the, um, canonician and authenticity, in other words, that it belongs to the canon of Scripture and, and who it was written by. Four, date and place of composition. Date. Thesis in the reign of Domitian, 81 to 96 AD. In the reign of Domitian, 81 to 96 AD. So say authors of the 1st to the 4th century. Proof. Saint Irenaeus, external proofs, internal confirmation. External proofs, Irenaeus says that Saint John, quote, "Saw the Apocalypse almost in our time." Irenaeus was writing, of course, around 180, 190, almost in our time. He saw the Apocalypse almost in our time towards the end of the reign of Domitian, unquote. Towards the end of the reign of Domitian, unquote. Eusebius. Eusebius, E-U-S-E-B-I-U-S, says that the Apocalypse was written in the 14th year of Domitian. Eusebius is quite precise. He says it was written in the 14th year of Domitian. In other words, about 94 or 95 AD.Saint Jerome said the same thing. External proofs, so there you've got three strong authorities amongst others. Internal confirmation, working now from the contents of the book. How can you date the book from the contents? External, internal. Internal. The historical situation of, of the... ... most importantly, it's the end of the first century. Okay. Historical situation at the end of the first century. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four features of the end of the first century. One, it contains no reference to Saint Paul in Ephesus. So Paul is ancient history. Remember he had to... He was very, and kept visiting Mass, then three years. So sin- There's no reference in the Apocalypse to Saint Paul being in Ephesus, therefore he's ancient history. Two. He must have come here often. Then we see that churches are either - The second argument is church, Asia Minor churches are growing slack or have grown slack. Not all of them were slack. Apocalypse Chapters two and three. Third argument, heresies are developing with the future time passing. Heresies are developing. They're not as active as they used to be. Four, the Pudii interrogative element was dramatically overestimated. It goes around trying to find the source of this really great material that's buried down there. The Pudii interrogative period comes after the initial church has died down. They're trying to find its source. There's some distance from the fervor of the initial churches. There's some distance from... They're trying to figure out how to get back to the original church. And one of the ways they do it is by copying the early Church fathers. They try to copy the early Church fathers because they knew what they were doing.