... and this was made a lot of markets, I think. From inside the church, the heresy of Nicolaians. And Serenpism, Serenpism is what it's called. Nicolaians is more or less what it says. Serenpism, Serenpism is the main opposition to Christianity. They're called Gnostics. Gnosis in Greek, sometimes special knowledge. Gnosis is a, um, for instance, we've still got an English agnostic who's a person who pretends that he doesn't know whether God exists or not. An agnostic. Gnostic, agnostic and gnostic in Greek are opposed. Agnostic is one who doesn't know, Gnostic is when he does know. In modern English, agnostic is somebody who doesn't know whether there is a God or not. Gnostic is somebody who adheres to some false version of Christianity as a special kind of knowledge. You know, those, those, those tired old... But they're not conscious, you know. They're not true, they're, they're bread. Um, people today, Father Merriman, for instance, um, um, he's, he's an interesting fellow. I don't know whether he's, I don't know whether he's coming across. I wanted him to talk to you because he's, he's got a lot to say, but I don't know whether he comes across. He's, he's very anti-liberal. Can't stand liberals. He's one of the strongest anti-liberals in the society, probably. You might not guess just a little bit from his looks. Uh, he's an, he's an interesting fellow. Um, uh, but he likes going off on theories though, you know, he's, he's, he likes to theorize. But he's not a, he's not just a theoretical man, believe me. No, no, no, no. Um, uh, then, uh, he's, he's written a piece about the Gnos- the Gnosis of John Paul II, and he follows the Argentinean Bish- uh, Vicario Maggio. And the, the, the i- you, you know, gnosis is a word which has all kinds of applications, but in the sense in which he uses it there, gnosis is a general name for all false versions of, of Christianity raised up by Judaism down all the centuries. Every time the Jews try to turn Christianity into some special kind of knowledge, every time the Jews raise another heresy to help destroy the church, and there's a connection between all of these heresies, like Freemasonry, communism, they're all a kind of gnosis. That's the argument. I honestly don't, uh, I don't pretend to know very much about the dirt gnosis, it's such a vague thing, it's so foul, it's so general, it's so multiple, but I never, I've never really studied the question. But those who do present an interesting argument that in, in every single century, the main op- opposition to Catholic doctrine is coming from the dirt gnosis, and that in one form or another, you can call the, um, behind the, the heresies, you will find a c- behind all the various heresies, or behin- or behind many of them, I don't know exactly what they were, but what Ehrmantria says, that behind many of the heresies raised up down the centuries against Catholic doctrine, you find, in one form or another, dirt gnosis. And neo-modernism is again a form of this age-old, age-old, age-old and repeated gnosis. You would've thought that neo-modern, moderns and the neo-moderns were something brand new and... No, no, heresies are as old as the hills. It's just the d- devil keeps giving them a new form. But what he keeps giving a new form to is this idea of like Keliadocum, you know, some special knowledge about the a- the alpha and the omega, the omega point and the, I mean, you know. There's always some new version of it, but it's the same old tired artificial supposed knowledge. That's gnosis. That's the word, use the word gnosis. Yes? Is that where the Jews... Uh, yes, that's, that's what many people argue, yes. The Jews are behind it all. Freemasonry is another form of the gnosis. The adoration of man is at the heart of the gnosis. Uh, this, the replacement of, of God by man, that's the very heart of the age-old, age-old, age-old gnosis. All right. The worship of Lucifer and the worship of man, that's it. All right. Um, from inside, the heresies of Nicolaians and Serenpism were beginning. And the gnosis, you must have learned this from Father Discaran, in church history, the Gnostics, as they're called, began getting going, began to get going towards the end of the first century.... it's against the Gnostics that some, Saint John wrote his first, the fourth gospel. And against, against him in particular he wrote the, The Divinity of the Word, the, "In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with God and the Word was God." The Word was not some kind of demiurge or semi-divinity. The Word was with God and the Word was God. Saint Paul, Saint John nails all of these false ideas about... Dark arts. You know, you can imagine all the sort of... Dark arts. You know what I mean? The intellectuals would have got... would go into a fuzzy sort of, they'd go into fuzzy orbit. Well, John's is way... the beginning of... Look at the beginning of his... Look at the beginning of his First Epistle, which we may or may not have a look at this year, but just have a look at that and contrast the, contrast John's grip on the Word, the Word of God. "That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon and our hands have touched of the Word of life, for the life was manifested. We have seen and do bear witness and declare unto you the life eternal, which was with the Father and hath appeared to us." So the Word of life, the Word was with God, he was amongst us, the God man. Bang! The God man. He was in Palestine. We ate with him, we touched him, we saw him risen from the dead. He encouraged us, we spoke with him, we knew him for three years. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. No vagueness. Absolute clarity, historical, what they would call today facts. Facts. Saint Paul, Saint John slams facts into the face of the Gnostics. It's not vague, it's not a specialized knowledge. He was a carpenter, he was in amongst us fishermen. If the... The Word of God came right down to earth. He didn't just come down to earth, he came right down to earth. He was in amongst us. We handled him, we touched him, we heard him. This is the concreteness and practicality of Catholicism, okay? That's absolutely not some vague intellectual theory floating up at 22,000 feet. No way. All right. The... From within, the heresies of Nicolaitan and Ceramphism were beginning. In other words, the intellectualization, the false intellectualization of Christianity, of Catholicism, which is always a temptation. That was beginning and therefore, um, the purpose of the, of the Book of the Apocalypse is, uh, to fight, uh Gnosticism. We'll see that. The Catholic faith was also wilting. W-I-L-T-I-N-G. To wilt is to wither, if you like. The Catholic faith was also... Like a candle wilts if you make it too hot without burn- without it burning. So if you could get too hot, the wax just... the, the candle sort of droops and wilts. It... A tulip wilts when it's beginning to die. It stood so prim and straight and then as, as it wilts, the flower wilts, it sort of begins to fall down. Begins to collapse. The Catholic faith was wilting in expectation of the second coming. Anybody remember a reference there in Saint Paul? Sam Gard? Well done. Second Thessalonians. That's right. Um, the Catholic faith was, was wilting in expectation of the second coming. Two Thessal- Two Thessalonians. The Apocalypse teaches that persecutions will pass. Christ and His church will triumph. In other words, Webber? Jesus gone away. Yeah, that's right. Jesus gone away. You got it. You got the idea. Persecutions will pass, Christ and His church will triumph. Catholics do need quite often to remember that because it doesn't look like it's healing. It teaches the meaning of history. The Apocalypse teaches the meaning of history. Evil is always attacking the church. Christians suffer but win. Today, heaven knows if you need to teach that message to Catholics. They know all about suffering. It's tough and they really need encouragement. Christians suffer but win. Any questions on addressees and purpose? Large six texts. I said what manuscripts have we got? Large six texts. 253 manuscripts between the 10th and the 17th Centuries. From the 10th to the 17th Century. 253 manuscripts from the 10th to the 17th Centuries. Maybe they're still discovering one or two, I have no idea. But it seems that there isn't a really ancient mass for some reason. I have no idea why. No idea. Seven, big seven. Six texts, was quite short. Seven theological teaching is interesting. The theological teaching of the Book of the Apocalypse. It's the Word of God, it's inspired, it's dealing with supernatural truths. What does it tell us about all these supernatural truths? Well, we put them in a classical order. One, God, two, Christ, three, Holy Ghost, four, angels, five, church, six, last things. One, teaching on God. It's quite brief. The Apocalypse being a message of hope, it underlines God's omnipotence. That's number one. Primo-... large sevens of theological teaching, primo, secundo, tercio, cuarto, quinto, sexto, y septimo. Primo, God. The apocalypse on that, what does it teach about God? It emphasizes his omnipotence. The power of God over all history, the power of God to rescue Christians, to make Christians triumph despite the worst that the, the world, the flesh, and the devil can throw at the church. Secondly, secundo, Christ. He is presented in triumph as man but the equal of God. He is presented in triumph as man but the equal of God. So you've got the God man. He is Son of God. He is Son of God. 218, 2 chapter two, verse 18. Chapter one, verse six. Chapter 14, verse one. The Son of God. He has divine attributes. Chapter two, verse 23. Chapter one, verse 18. Chapter three, verse 21. He receives divine worship, chapter 20, verse six. He receives divine titles. Chapter one, verse 17. Chapter two, verse 18. Chapter 23, verse... That's, that's, that's a error. Th- there aren't 23 chapters. Um, that's a printer's error. So it's that one. Um, uh, it's, it's chapter 22, verse 13, "I am the alpha and the omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end." Chapter 22, verse 13. Chapter one, verse 18, "And alive or was dead," um, "Behold I'm living forever and ever, have the keys of death and of hell." Uh, chapter three, verse seven, "These things set the holy one as the true one. He even has the key of David. He even opens for no man shut it, shut it for no man openeth." Chapter 21, verse six, "And he said to me, 'It is done. I am alpha and omega, the beginning and the end.'" Chapter 17, verse 14, "He shall fight with the lamb and the lamb shall overcome him because he is lord of lords and king of kings." Chapter 19, verse 13, "And he was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood and his name is called the word of God," et cetera. So you can see that num- obviously numerous titles. But Christ is also man. It has numerous titles as God, but he is also man. Chapter one, verse 13, "And in the midst of the seven golden campstays one light of the son of man came over the garment down to the feet and girt about the perhaps with a golden girdle." Chapter 14, verse 14, "Son of man." Chapter 14, ver- verse 14. So he is God with all kinds of divine attributes and titles. He is also man. Lastly, above all, he is lamb, L-A-M-B. He is lamb. St. Thomas Aquinas says that, I think I said to you the other day, that the lamb is the most complete type of Christ in the Old Testament. He is lamb. Delivering us from sin, chapter one, verse five, "Who hath loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood." Redeeming us, chapter five, verse nine, "And they sung a new canticle, saying, 'Thou art worthy, O Lord, to take the book and to open its seals thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us, O God, in thy blood, out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation.'" Redeeming us, five, verse nine. Sanctifying us, five, verse ten. "And has made us to our God the kingdom of priests, and we shall reign on the earth." Sanctifying us, five, verse ten. Triumphant in heaven. Triumphant in heaven, five, verse six. "And I saw and behold in the midst of the throne were the four living creatures. And in the midst of the ancients a lamb standing as it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth." So he delivers from, from sin, 1:5. He redeems us, 5:9. He sanctifies us, 5:10. He is triumphant in heaven, 5:6. And he saves us, saving us, 12, verse 11, 19, verses 7 to 9. Primo, God. Secundo, Christ. Tertio, Holy Ghost. Oh, I, I won't start. (beeping) Tertio, Holy Ghost.